Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73 Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation European law requires that the Groups consolidated financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
This will also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the acquisition method of accounting.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Exceptional items and underlying profit Exceptional items are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
In 2014 the exceptional costs relate to the loss on extinguishment of the Old Notes, the repayment of the swap and the tax associated with those items.
In 2015 the exceptional credit is due to the changes to the headline rate of corporation tax used to evaluate deferred tax.
In arriving at underlying profit exceptional items are added back together with external transaction costs and the profit or loss on sale of fixed assets.
See the Financial review for further details.
External transaction costs External transaction costs, associated with acquisitions, refinancing or return of value to shareholders, are excluded from underlying profit as they are unconnected with the trading performance in the period and are therefore presented separately.
They relate wholly to external costs incurred by the Group.
Pre-arranged funeral plan trusts The prearranged funeral plan trusts are not consolidated during the period as they are not controlled by the Group.
Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 RAO requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group.
Further information can be found in the non consolidation of preneed trusts note within critical accounting estimates and judgements below.
Revenue Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals, income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods supplied.
Revenues include amounts receivable from the prearranged funeral plan trusts for funerals performed by the Group for prearranged funeral plan members.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
Dignity plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 1 Accounting policies continued The Group pays certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers fees and doctors fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process.
However, these amounts are not included within net revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
The accounting policies for recognising turnover for prearranged funeral plans are stated below.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar longterm characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT.
Pre-arranged funeral plans Trust plans The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, with monies received from selling funeral plans being held and controlled by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts the Trusts.
The responsibility for the ultimate performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan, some of whom are not owned by the Group.
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions: A marketing and administration allowance in respect of each plan sold.
The marketing element is only refundable in the event that the plan is subsequently cancelled.
A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences, where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts.
Marketing and administration allowances are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on cancellations: and Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative services supplied to the Trusts.
These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the prearranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in respect of current members Recoveries.
All Recoveries are recognised as other income in the period in which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to third party funeral directors when the funeral is ultimately performed.
All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with the terms of the relevant Trusts deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the Group when a prearranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a prearranged funeral plan that i if the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies paid in respect thereof less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company : ii the funeral directors services as selected by the customer will be provided regardless of price rises in the future: and iii for the majority of plans sold, specific disbursements such as crematoria fees, ministers fees and doctors fees will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid to the insurers when the policy is initially charged to the Group.
Where this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a receivable and expensed when the funeral is performed.
In the event of the death of the policyholder, if the Group performs the funeral, it receives an agreed amount from the insurers which is recognised as revenue within the funeral division.
On occasions a third party will perform the funeral and the Group will pass on all monies received to that party.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled sharebased payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75 1 Accounting policies continued An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
When the options are exercised the Company issues new shares.
Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares primarily share options.
Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Fair value measurement Other than in respect of items measured at fair value on acquisition of businesses and in respect of sharebased payments, the Group has no assets or liabilities measured and recognised at fair value.
The Group discloses fair values for financial assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date.
Fair value related disclosures are set out in note 26 in respect of fair values on acquisition of businesses and in note 21 in respect of financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability measured using the assumptions that market participants would use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The business and subsidiaries acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are therefore only considered to be separate cashgenerating units during this time.
Intangible assets trade names Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the estimated fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment.
When acquired as part of a business combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by virtue of the trade name being wellestablished.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to writeoff the asset on a straight line basis over the term of its useful life.
Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a wellestablished market with inelastic demand, where reputation, recommendation and previous experience acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Groups track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics.
In addition, when allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered: The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and anticipated profitability: The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade names life such as competition and shifting demographics and the Groups ability to combat these: The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired: and The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion, maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Dignity plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 1 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets non-compete contracts Noncompete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at their fair value, which is calculated as the present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Groups cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straight line basis.
Intangible assets software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems including websites is recognised if, and only if, the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to eight years using the straight line method.
Intangible assets use of third party brand name The Group has a marketing agreement with Age UK Enterprises Limited, giving rights to market prearranged funeral plans under the Age UK brand.
The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straight line basis, recognising that each years additional marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
Property, plant and equipment Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location and condition.
Depreciation is charged so as to writeoff the cost of assets to their residual value excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction, over their expected useful lives using the straight line method.
The bases and annual depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% 10% Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease Motor vehicles 11% 20% Computers 20% Other plant and equipment 5% 33% Fixtures and fittings 15% Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an indefinite life.
Where the historical cost of land and buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third based on historical data of the original cost of acquiring the land and buildings.
This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Groups trading premises and cremator relinings are depreciated over the remaining life of the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator relining, whichever is sooner.
Asset lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are shown as work in progress at a value equal to costs incurred to date.
Once completed, they are reclassified and depreciated using the Groups depreciation policy above.
Borrowing costs If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the interest incurred on borrowed capital up to the date of completion is capitalised as part of cost of construction as permitted by IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Repairs and renewals All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements such that the interest element is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 1 Accounting policies continued Profit or loss on sale of fixed assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within profit or loss on sale of fixed assets in the income statement.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life e. g. goodwill which are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill this is considered at a business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored.
For other intangibles principally trade names this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash inflows are largely independent.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit are estimated, based on latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Any impairment in the value of an asset below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Inventories Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset to generate a net asset or liability if the conditions of IAS 12 are met.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Pensions The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions other than deferred tax are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to the undiscounted value.
The unwinding of discounts is included within finance costs.
Dignity plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 1 Accounting policies continued Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
At the balance sheet date, the trusts assets and liabilities recognised in the Groups balance sheet within share capital and reserves were nil 2014: nil.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when paid.
Financial instruments Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs and subsequently at amortised costs.
The transaction costs, interest payable and premium on debt finance are charged credited to the income statement, as finance costs income, on a constantyield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are writtenoff to the income statement as incurred.
Early settlement of Old Notes As discussed in the Groups critical accounting estimates and judgements, the early settlement of the Old Notes in the prior period was considered to be an extinguishment.
Where refinanced borrowings are accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability, costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on extinguishment and writtenoff through exceptional finance costs.
Trade receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience.
When a trade receivable is not collectable it is writtenoff against the allowance account.
Subsequent recovery of amounts previously writtenoff are credited against administrative expenses in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits and amounts included in accounts restricted for specific uses.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgements in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are detailed below: Non consolidation of preneed trusts The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, with monies received from selling funeral plans being held by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts.
These trusts are not consolidated by the Group, on the basis they do not control them.
The principle of nonconsolidation was established many years ago, and therefore the Directors consider annually whether there have been any changes to terms and conditions, or accounting standards that would change this determination.
IFRS 10, consolidated financial statements, has been considered by the Group in 2015 with specific reference to the nonconsolidation of the preneed trust, for further details please see the IFRS 10 note below.
For new trusts acquired in the period, the Directors consider the terms and conditions to determine whether nonconsolidation is appropriate.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each division, assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the receivable and the type of services provided.
The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79 1 Accounting policies continued Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements.
These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are the discount rate and the inflation rate.
See note 28 for further details.
Goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on valueinuse calculations however, acquisitions in the period have been determined using fair value less cost to sell.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 9 for further details.
Other intangible assets The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 Intangible assets trade names.
These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on valueinuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Acquisition of companies In accounting for business combinations, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired have to be measured at their fair values.
In particular, some judgement is required in estimating the split between intangible assets and goodwill and determining the fair value of properties.
Details concerning acquisitions of companies are outlined in note 26.
Early settlement of Old Notes In the prior period, consideration was given as to whether the exchange of the Old Notes for New Notes constituted a modification of their terms or an early settlement extinguishment.
Further details can be found in the Groups 2014 annual report.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2015 The Group has applied IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor on whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
In order to have control, IFRS 10 requires a parent company to have power over the investee, an exposure to variable returns because of its involvement in the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the variable returns.
The Group has specifically considered IFRS 10 in light of the Groups non consolidation of its prearranged funeral plan trusts.
IFRS 10 consideration Analysis Power over the investee.
Power arises when the investor Dignity has no voting rights over the Trusts or any rights to has existing rights that gives them the ability to direct the direct the activities of the Trusts.
Whilst Dignity has the power relevant activities of the investee, being those activities to appoint or remove trustees, legislation requires the majority which influence the returns achieved by the investee.
of trustees to be independent of Dignity.
Whilst Dignity controls the charge levied to the Trusts for the provision of funeral services, it does not have the power to direct the investment decisions of the Trusts.
The investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns Dignity receives an allowance for the marketing of the plans from its involvement with the investee.
and for the performance of a funeral.
From time to time Dignity may receive a surplus from the Trusts.
Ultimately Dignitys return is wholly dependent on the investment performance of the Trusts.
A majority of the Trustees are required, by legislation, to be The investor has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investors returns.
independent of Dignity and therefore Dignity does not, and cannot, control the actions of the Trustees.
The investment strategy is set, implemented and monitored by the Trustees.
Consequently, Dignity does not have the power to affect the amount of its returns.
The Group does not believe that, given the above conditions required for consolidation in the new standard, a change in accounting policy is required.
Dignity plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 1 Accounting policies continued The Group has applied IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
This standard includes disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group has reviewed the disclosures relating to its prearranged funeral plan trusts and amended where required.
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2015 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements amendment, effective 1 January 2016.
The amendments clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
The Group has reviewed this amendment and it may result in the elimination of certain disclosures that are not material.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
This standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2018.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, effective 1 January 2018.
This standard establishes a new five step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The principals in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measure and recognise revenue.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and will therefore impact the Groups 2020 financial results.
Under the standard a lessee is required to recognise a rightofuse asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
Approximately 50 per cent of the Groups properties are on lease terms that are currently accounted for as an operating lease but which will result in the recognition of both an asset and a liability under the new standard.
As the notes to the consolidated accounts demonstrate, the Group has total minimum future lease payments under noncancellable operating leases of approximately 175 million.
Whilst the net present value of this commitment will be less than this amount, the grossing up of the Groups balance sheet that will be required to reflect this new standard will be material and will also impact on the Groups reported profit after tax.
The Group will be assessing this in due course, but notes that the accounting standard does not affect the cash flows or underlying economics of the business.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2 Financial risk management The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cashgenerative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Market risk Interest rate risk and other price risk The Groups main borrowings consist of New Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a predetermined repayment profile.
The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and yield spreads based on the markets current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes.
Consequently, the fair value of these instruments will fluctuate.
Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding strategy and repay the Secured Notes early.
The Group is also fully drawn on a 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The principal on the facility is repayable in one amount in February 2018 and interest is fixed at approximately 3.3 per cent.
All interest is payable in cash on a quarterly basis.
Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases in LIBOR on this facility.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81 2 Financial risk management continued The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions with a longterm rating of at least BBB by Standard & Poors and BBB by Fitch.
These balances earn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate.
If interest rates reduced by one per cent at the beginning of 2016 then the Group would receive 0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each 10.0 million held.
None of the Groups other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group.
However, this risk is minimised as much as possible through wellestablished credit control procedures.
Quantitative disclosures regarding the ageing of these receivables are included in note 21 c. Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances.
In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times.
This ratio was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid.
This covenant test has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period.
At 25 December 2015 the actual ratio was 3.35 times 2014: 10.69 times.
The New Notes were issued on 17 October 2014.
Consequently, Senior Interest only accrues from this date for the Relevant Period.
Debt Service in 2014, assuming a full year Senior Interest would have been approximately 33.7 million.
On this basis, the EBITDA DSCR would have been 2.95 times and the Free Cashflow DSCR would have been 2.47 times.
Capital risk management The Groups objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and repay holders of Secured Notes.
It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Groups capital comprises equity and net debt as set out in note 24.
The Groups principal source of longterm debt financing is the New Notes, rated A and BBB respectively by Standard & Poors and Fitch.
The Group monitors its capital structure based on gross debt, as summarised in note 24, to underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants for the New Notes under the terms of the Groups secured borrowings see Liquidity risk above.
Dignity plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 3 Revenue and segmental analysis Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
The chief operating decision maker of the Group has been identified as the four Executive Directors.
The Group has three reporting segments, funeral services, crematoria and prearranged funeral plans.
The Group also reports central overheads, which comprise unallocated central expenses.
Funeral services relate to the provision of funerals and ancillary items, such as memorials and floral tributes.
Crematoria services relate to cremation services and the sale of memorials and burial plots at the Dignity operated crematoria and cemeteries.
Prearranged funeral plans represent the sale of funerals in advance to customers wishing to make their own funeral arrangements and the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
Substantially all Group revenue is derived from, and substantially all of the Groups net assets and liabilities are located in, the United Kingdom and Channel Islands and relates to services provided.
Overseas transactions are not material.
Underlying profit is stated before profit or loss on sale of fixed assets, external transaction costs and exceptional items.
Underlying operating profit is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit loss for these items provides a useful indication of the Groups performance.
The revenue and operating profit loss, by segment, was as follows: Profit on sale of fixed assets, Underlying external operating profit transaction loss before Depreciation Underlying costs and depreciation and and operating profit exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation loss items profit loss 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 m m m m m m Funeral services existing 206.2 85.0 10.5 74.5 74.5 1 Funeral services acquisitions 6.4 2.4 0.1 2.3 3.2 0.9 Funeral services 212.6 87.4 10.6 76.8 3.2 73.6 Crematoria 63.1 37.8 3.2 34.6 34.6 Prearranged funeral plans 29.6 8.0 0.2 7.8 7.8 Central overheards 19.9 0.6 20.5 20.5 Group 305.3 113.3 14.6 98.7 3.2 95.5 Finance costs 27.0 27.0 Finance income 0.5 0.5 Profit before tax 72.2 3.2 69.0 Taxation continuing activities 15.5 15.5 Taxation exceptional 3.4 3.4 Taxation 15.5 3.4 12.1 Underlying earnings for the period 56.7 Total other items 0.2 Profit after taxation 56.9 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders Basic pence 114.8p 115.2p Diluted pence 114.1p 114.5p 1 Included within acquisitions is revenue of 4.3 million and underlying operating profit of 1.4 million in respect of the Laurel Funerals acquisition.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Prearranged Central services Crematoria funeral plans overheads Group As at 25 December 2015 m m m m m Segment assets 412.9 140.8 19.6 4.1 577.4 Unallocated assets: Cash and cash equivalents 98.8 Total assets 676.2 Segment liabilities 48.2 8.7 8.3 12.7 77.9 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 602.2 Accrued interest 12.9 Corporation tax 5.4 Deferred tax 21.7 Total liabilities 720.1 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 64.7 2.6 1.5 68.8 Depreciation note 10 10.6 3.2 0.7 14.5 Amortisation note 9 0.1 0.1 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 2.0 0.2 2.2 Other noncash expenses note 23 2.4 2.4 The revenue and operating profit, by segment, was as follows: Loss on sale of Underlying fixed assets, operating external profit loss transaction before Depreciation Underlying costs and depreciation and and operating profit exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation loss items profit loss 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 m m m m m m Funeral services 184.4 75.9 9.6 66.3 1.5 64.8 Crematoria 55.2 32.3 3.2 29.1 0.2 28.9 Prearranged funeral plans 29.3 7.6 0.2 7.4 7.4 Central overheads 17.4 0.5 17.9 0.3 18.2 Group 268.9 98.4 13.5 84.9 2.0 82.9 Finance costs 30.6 124.2 154.8 Finance income 4.2 4.2 Loss profit before tax 58.5 126.2 67.7 Taxation continuing activities 13.1 13.1 Taxation exceptional 25.8 25.8 Taxation 13.1 25.8 12.7 Underlying earnings for the period 45.4 Total other items 100.4 Loss after taxation 55.0 Earnings per share for loss profit attributable to equity shareholders Basic and diluted pence 85.8p 104.0 p Dignity plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Prearranged Central services Crematoria funeral plans overheads Group As at 26 December 2014 m m m m m Segment assets 350.8 141.3 19.5 3.1 514.7 Unallocated assets: Cash and cash equivalents 86.5 Corporation tax 1.0 Total assets 602.2 Segment liabilities 39.7 7.8 8.1 9.6 65.2 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 610.2 Accrued interest 5.7 Deferred tax 13.6 Total liabilities 694.7 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 40.5 3.4 1.3 45.2 Depreciation note 10 9.6 3.2 0.5 13.3 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.6 1.6 Other noncash expenses note 23 2.0 2.0 Loss on sale of fixed assets 0.3 0.3 Cash generated from operations, at a divisional level, is considered to be broadly similar to the amount of underlying operating profit by each division.
4 Net finance costs 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Finance costs Old Notes 21.8 New Notes 25.0 5.1 Amortisation of issue costs 1.5 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.6 0.6 Other loans 0.9 1.3 Net finance cost on retirement benefit obligations note 28 0.3 Unwinding of discounts 0.2 0.3 Underlying finance costs 27.0 30.6 Extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Finance costs 27.0 154.8 Finance income Bank deposits 0.5 1.0 Amortisation of premium on Old Notes 3.2 Finance income 0.5 4.2 Net finance costs 26.5 150.6 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85 5 Profit loss before tax 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Analysis by nature m m The following items have been included in arriving at profit loss before tax: Staff costs note 27 94.7 82.8 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 16.2 14.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 10 14.5 13.3 Amortisation of intangible assets included in administrative expenses note 9 0.1 0.2 Operating lease rentals property 9.6 8.7 External transaction costs 3.2 1.7 Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Trade receivables impairment included in administrative expenses note 21 c 2.2 1.6 Services provided by the Groups auditors and its associates: Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Tax advisory services Other advisory services 0.3 0.2 External transaction costs The current period relates to acquisition expenses which are not deductible for tax purposes.
The prior period related to 1.4 million of other external acquisition expense and 0.3 million external costs relating to the Return of Cash.
There was no impact on taxation.
During 2015, the Group paid 40,000 of fees to the Groups auditor in connection with the other nonaudit services.
See the Audit Committee report for further details.
2014 Items Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional In 2014, the Group exchanged Old Notes with a book value of 404.6 million, stated before deduction of net unamortised issue costs of 14.8 million, for New Notes with a value of 501.3 million and cash of 5.9 million.
The Group incurred incremental costs of 5.8 million in respect of this exchange.
As explained in note 1, this exchange was assessed as being an extinguishment of the Old Notes and the issue of New Notes, such that a loss on extinguishment of 123.2 million arose.
The impact on taxation on this is a credit of 25.6 million.
Elimination of swap exceptional The swap terminated in 2014 had a fair value of 5.1 million and a carrying value of 4.1 million, resulting in an exceptional finance cost of 1.0 million.
The impact on taxation on this is a credit of 0.2 million.
Dignity plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 6 Taxation 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Analysis of charge in the period m m Current tax current period 10.4 0.6 Adjustments for prior period 0.7 Total corporation tax 10.4 0.1 Deferred tax current period 5.1 1.2 Non trade deficit recognised in the period 11.6 Adjustments for prior period 0.2 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate 3.4 Total deferred tax 1.7 12.6 Taxation 12.1 12.7 -- 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income or equity m m Deferred tax credit on remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.3 2.2 Deferred tax credit relating to maturity of option schemes 0.1 0.3 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate 0.3 Total deferred tax credited to other comprehensive income or equity 0.1 2.5 Corporation tax credit relating to maturity of option schemes 0.7 0.6 Total corporation tax credited to equity 0.7 0.6 The taxation charge in the period is lower 2014: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25 per cent 2014: 21.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Profit loss before taxation 69.0 67.7 Profit loss before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 14.0 14.6 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior period 0.5 Exceptional adjustment in respect of closing deferred tax rate change in 2015 3.4 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.5 2.4 Total taxation 12.1 12.7 Under IFRS the tax rate is lower 2014: lower than the standard UK tax rate of 20.25 per cent 2014: 21.5 per cent principally due to the exceptional adjustment 2014: combination of the impact of disallowable trading expenses and expenditure on the Groups premises that does not attract any deductions for tax purposes.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21 per cent to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015.
Accordingly the Groups underlying profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 21.5 per cent 2014: 22.5 per cent.
The Group does not have any provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 20 per cent to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and then to 18 per cent from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and so the deferred tax balance has been calculated at the rates at which it is expected to be incurred.
As a result, the Group recognised exceptional tax credit of 3.4 million through its income statement, a debit of 0.2 million through other comprehensive income and a debit of 0.1 million through equity to reflect the one off reduction in the period of the Groups deferred tax position.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Overview Strategic Report Governance F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87 7 Dividends 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Final dividend paid: 13.01p per Ordinary Share 2014: 11.83p 6.5 6.3 Interim dividend paid: 7.14p per Ordinary Share 2014: 6.49p 3.5 3.5 Dividend on Ordinary Shares 10.0 9.8 The interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings generated in the same period.
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings generated in the previous period.
Consequently, total dividends recognised in the period were 10.0 million, 20.15 pence per share 2014: 74.2 million, 138.32 pence per share.
A final dividend of 14.31 pence per share, in respect of 2015, has been proposed by the Board.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the date of signing this report the total final dividend payment is approximately 7.1 million.
This will be paid on 24 June 2016 provided that approval is gained from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2016 and will be paid to shareholders on the register at close of business on 20 May 2016.
2014 Return of Cash On 7 November 2014, the Group returned a total of 64.4 million to ordinary shareholders equating to 1.20 for each Ordinary Share held following the issue of the New Notes.
Ordinary shareholders were able to elect to receive this Return of Cash as either: a A return of capital the Capital Option.
b A special dividend the Special Dividend Option.
Ordinary shareholders elected to receive 20.1 million as a return of capital and 44.3 million as a special dividend.
8 Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share has been based on the profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders for the relevant period.
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares being those share options granted to employees under the Groups SAYE Scheme and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups LTIP Schemes.
At the balance sheet date, the performance criteria for the vesting of the awards under the LTIP Schemes are assessed, as required by IAS 33, and to the extent that the performance criteria have been met those contingently issuable shares are included within the diluted EPS calculations.
In prior periods, the potential issue of new shares pursuant to the Groups share option plans had no impact on the calculation of earnings per share.
For the period ended 26 December 2014, any potential ordinary shares to be included when considering diluted earnings per share were antidilutive.
As a result there was no difference between basic earnings per share and basic diluted earnings per share.
The Board believes that profit on ordinary activities before profit or loss on sale of fixed assets, external transaction costs, exceptional items and after taxation is a useful indication of the Groups performance, as it excludes significant nonrecurring items.
This reporting measure is defined as Underlying profit after taxation.
Accordingly, the Board believes that earnings per share calculated by reference to this underlying profit after taxation is also a useful indicator of financial performance.
Dignity plc 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 8 Earnings per share continued In 2014, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation together with a Special Dividend of 1.08 per Ordinary Share.
The overall effect of this transaction was that of a share repurchase at fair value.
The reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares is the result of a corresponding reduction in resources and therefore no adjustment has been made to the earnings per share calculation.
Reconciliations of the earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount m millions pence 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 Underlying profit after taxation and EPS 56.7 49.4 114.8 Add: Exceptional items, loss on sale of fixed assets and external transaction costs net of taxation of nil million 0.2 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic EPS 56.9 49.4 115.2 Profit attributable to shareholders Diluted EPS 56.9 49.7 114.5 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 Underlying profit after taxation and EPS 45.4 52.9 85.8 Add: Exceptional items, loss on sale of fixed assets and external transaction costs net of taxation of 25.8 million 100.4 Loss attributable to shareholders Basic and diluted EPS 55.0 52.9 104.0 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Use of third Non Trade party brand compete names name Software agreements Subtotal Goodwill Total m m m m m m m Cost At 27 December 2013 74.5 3.2 4.0 0.2 81.9 173.7 255.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 17.7 17.7 8.6 26.3 At 26 December 2014 92.2 3.2 4.0 0.2 99.6 182.3 281.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses note 26 a 32.6 32.6 19.2 51.8 At 25 December 2015 124.8 3.2 4.0 0.2 132.2 201.5 333.7 Accumulated amortisation At 27 December 2013 1.0 4.0 0.2 5.2 5.2 Amortisation charge 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 26 December 2014 1.2 4.0 0.2 5.4 5.4 Amortisation charge 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 25 December 2015 1.3 4.0 0.2 5.5 5.5 Net book amount at 25 December 2015 124.8 1.9 126.7 201.5 328.2 Net book amount at 26 December 2014 92.2 2.0 94.2 182.3 276.5 Net book amount at 27 December 2013 74.5 2.2 76.7 173.7 250.4 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets As described in note 1, goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing: i Goodwill excluding goodwill acquired in the period is tested at a business segment level.
ii Other intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cashgenerating units CGUs which are considered to be on a regional basis.
The segmental allocation is shown below: Intangible assets Goodwill Total At 25 December 2015 m m m Funeral services 124.8 149.9 274.7 Crematoria 46.9 46.9 Prearranged funeral plans 1.9 4.7 6.6 126.7 201.5 328.2 At 26 December 2014 Funeral services 92.2 130.7 222.9 Crematoria 46.9 46.9 Prearranged funeral plans 2.0 4.7 6.7 94.2 182.3 276.5 The recoverable amount of a CGU is based on a valueinuse calculation for goodwill and intangible assets existing at the start of the period.
The valueinuse calculations use cash flow projections based on the latest management expectations.
Key assumptions used to produce the annual budget are the estimated UK death rates based on historical death rates supplied by ONS, anticipated market share based on actual experience and anticipated price increases based on actual experience.
Cash flows beyond the initial 12 month period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25 per cent 2014: 2.25 per cent, being an estimate of longterm growth rates for impairment review purposes only.
The cash flows are discounted at a pretax rate of 8.1 per cent 2014: 10.2 per cent.
This rate is used for each CGU because they all have similar risk profiles.
Based on these calculations, the discount rate would have to increase to at least 18.1 per cent 2014: 18 per cent, or the growth rate would have to reduce to at least minus 9.2 per cent 2014: minus 6.1 per cent to result in any impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and working capital.
For acquisitions made in the period, the recoverable amount of cashgenerating units has been determined on the basis of fair value less costs to sell.
The consideration paid in each case supports the valuation of goodwill which is subject to an annual impairment review.
On the basis of the above, the review indicated that no impairment arose in any segment 2014: nil.
Dignity plc 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 10 Property, plant and equipment Freehold Plant, machinery, land and Leasehold fixtures and Motor Work buildings buildings fittings vehicles in progress Total m m m m m m Cost At 27 December 2013 114.5 42.7 42.7 56.3 4.0 260.2 Additions 0.9 2.6 1.7 7.4 6.8 19.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 1.8 0.1 1.7 3.6 Disposals 0.3 3.8 4.7 0.1 8.9 Reclassification 1.0 2.9 2.1 0.1 6.1 At 26 December 2014 118.2 48.0 42.7 60.8 4.6 274.3 Additions 0.8 1.0 1.6 8.0 8.6 20.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses note 26 a 2.3 1.2 3.5 Disposals 0.4 0.1 0.1 1.7 2.3 Reclassification 4.5 1.0 1.1 6.6 At 25 December 2015 125.4 49.9 45.3 68.3 6.6 295.5 Accumulated depreciation At 27 December 2013 18.3 12.8 20.2 25.3 76.6 Depreciation charge 2.8 1.9 4.0 4.6 13.3 Disposals 0.2 3.8 3.9 7.9 At 26 December 2014 21.1 14.5 20.4 26.0 82.0 Depreciation charge 3.0 2.0 4.2 5.3 14.5 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.3 1.6 Reclassification At 25 December 2015 24.0 16.4 24.5 30.0 94.9 Net book amount at 25 December 2015 101.4 33.5 20.8 38.3 6.6 200.6 Net book amount at 26 December 2014 97.1 33.5 22.3 34.8 4.6 192.3 Net book amount at 27 December 2013 96.2 29.9 22.5 31.0 4.0 183.6 Depreciation expense of 5.4 million 2014: 4.6 million is included within cost of sales and 9.1 million 2014: 8.7 million is included within administrative expenses.
Details of any securities over assets are disclosed in note 30.
Additional headings have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for property, plant and equipment in order to provide additional information on the different types of expenditure that the Group has incurred during the year.
Assets held under finance leases, which relate solely to leasehold land and buildings, have the following net book amount: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Cost 1.0 1.0 Accumulated depreciation 0.3 0.3 Net book amount 0.7 0.7 The Group had capital expenditure authorised by the Board and contracted for at the balance sheet date of 7.7 million 2014: 2.0 million.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91 11 Noncurrent financial and other assets 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Note m m Prepayments a 7.5 7.6 Deferred commissions b 2.8 2.8 10.3 10.4 a Prepayments This balance represents the amounts paid to acquire the long leasehold interest in land at certain of the Groups properties.
Management consider that leases greater than 50 years at inception are long leases.
The balance is expensed on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The leases expire at various times over the next 30 to 125 years.
b Deferred commissions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a receivable and expensed when the funeral is performed.
12 Investments A list of all entities included within the financial information are included in note C9 to the Companys financial statements.
13 Inventories 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Materials 0.2 0.2 Finished goods 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 There were no inventory writedowns in either period.
14 Trade and other receivables 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 24.0 20.6 Less: provision for impairment note 21 c 5.7 4.9 Net trade receivables 18.3 15.7 1 Receivables due from prearranged funeral plans trusts note 29 9.7 9.2 Prepayments and accrued income 2.3 2.7 Other receivables 1.6 1.4 Corporation tax 1.0 31.9 30.0 1 Included in this amount is approximately 1.2 million 2014: 0.5 million falling due after more than one year.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful recoverables.
For further details of the trade receivables past due and impaired refer to note 21 c. Due to the shortterm nature of these balances, the carrying value is considered to be their fair value.
Dignity plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 15 Cash and cash equivalents 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Operating cash as reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash and cash equivalents 81.9 76.9 Amounts set aside for debt service payments 16.9 9.6 Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the balance sheet 98.8 86.5 Amounts set aside for debt service payments This amount was transferred to restricted bank accounts which could only be used for the payment of the interest and principal on the Secured Notes and commitment fees due on its undrawn borrowing facilities see note 21 d and for no other purpose.
Consequently, this amount does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows.
This amount was used to pay these respective parties on 31 December 2015.
Of this amount, 12.8 million 2014: 5.6 million is shown within the Statement of Cash Flows as Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance costs and 4.1 million 2014: 4.0 million is shown within Financing activities as Payments to restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings.
16 Financial liabilities 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Note m m Current New A Notes a 8.3 8.0 d 8.3 8.0 Noncurrent New Notes a 578.2 586.6 Finance lease obligations b 0.7 0.7 Crematoria Acquisition Facility c 15.7 15.6 594.6 602.9 a New Notes On 17 October 2014, Dignity Finance PLC issued the New Notes.
Interest is payable on the New Notes on 30 June and 31 December of each year.
Transaction costs of 0.3 million and 0.4 million were incurred directly relating to the issue of the New A Notes and the New B Notes respectively.
At 25 December 2015, 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million and 0.4 million 2014: 0.4 million of the transaction costs in respect of the New A Notes and the New B Notes respectively remain unamortised.
For further details of security over the New Notes see note 30 a.
c Crematoria Acquisition Facility The Group is fully drawn on a 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The transaction costs incurred on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility were 0.2 million.
The principal outstanding on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table on page 92.
At 25 December 2015, 15.8 million 2014: 15.8 million of the principal was outstanding.
At 25 December 2015, 0.1 million 2014: 0.2 million of the transaction costs remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the Crematoria Acquisition Facility see note 30 b. d Current financial liabilities The current financial liabilities represent the amounts falling due within one year of the Groups balance sheet date.
Dignity plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 17 Trade and other payables 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Current m m Trade payables 7.5 5.3 Tax and social security 1.7 1.5 Other current liabilities 2.2 2.1 Accruals 50.3 38.4 Deferred income 5.8 3.9 67.5 51.2 Noncurrent Deferred income 1.0 1.1 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Other noncurrent liabilities 1.2 1.4 2.3 2.6 18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases For minimum lease payments obligations under finance leases refer to note 21 d ii.
25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m The minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Not later than one year 10.3 9.8 Later than one year but not more than five years 28.5 27.5 More than five years 135.6 131.3 174.4 168.6 The noncancellable operating leases principally relate to leasehold land and buildings.
Of the total operating lease payments charged to trading expenses, nil million 2014: nil million are in respect of contingent rentals.
The contingent rentals are based on the revenues generated at the specific locations.
Sublease payments received in the year amount to 0.5 million 2014: 0.5 million.
Total future sublease payments receivable relating to operating leases amount to 0.7 million 2014: 0.7 million.
In addition, the Group has operating lease commitments with rentals determined in relation to revenues.
No operating lease commitment disclosures are required for these arrangements, as future lease payments represent contingent rental payments.
19 Provisions for liabilities Onerous Cancellation Dilapidations contracts provision m m m Total a b c m At beginning of period 4.5 0.1 1.3 5.9 Charged to income statement 1.6 0.1 1.7 Arising on acquisitions 0.8 0.8 Released to income statement 0.3 0.3 Utilised in period 0.4 0.4 Amortisation of discount 0.1 0.1 At end of period 6.3 0.1 1.4 7.8 Provisions have been analysed between current and noncurrent as follows: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Current 1.5 1.4 Noncurrent 6.3 4.5 7.8 5.9 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95 19 Provisions for liabilities continued a Dilapidations The provision for dilapidations covers the costs of repair to leased premises occupied by the Group in respect of which a dilapidations notification has been received, and properties where a dilapidation obligation exists but for which no notification has been received.
It is anticipated that the element of provision relating to dilapidation notices served, 1.0 million 2014: 1.1 million, will be incurred in the following financial year, and the element relating to dilapidation obligations where no notice has been served will be utilised over the terms of the relevant property leases, the majority of which is expected to be by 31 December 2024. b Onerous contracts The Group has provided for the discounted future costs of certain contracts to which the Group is legally bound.
These contracts relate to vacant leasehold properties and other contracts from which no economic benefit is derived.
The provision will be utilised over the term of the contracts and it is anticipated that it will be fully utilised by 2034.
Included within the provision is an amount of nil million 2014: nil million relating to the expected costs of ongoing rent reviews, the outcomes of which have been based on recent experience of similar reviews on other properties.
c Cancellation provision As described in note 1, the Group receives monies from certain prearranged funeral plan Trusts in respect of the marketing of prearranged funeral plans, which are refundable to the Trust in the event of cancellation.
The provision covers the expected cost of such cancellations anticipated to occur in future years relating to plans sold before the balance sheet date and is anticipated to be utilised over the next five years.
20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of between 18 and 20 per cent 2014: 20 per cent.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m At beginning of period 13.6 26.9 Charged credited to income statement note 6 5.1 12.6 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate 3.1 Taken to other comprehensive income note 6 0.3 2.2 Taken to equity note 6 0.1 0.3 Arising on acquisitions note 26 a 6.5 1.8 At end of period 21.7 13.6 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below: Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation Other Total m m m At beginning of period 15.5 13.9 29.4 Charged credited to income statement note 6 0.7 0.1 0.6 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate taken to the income statement 1.7 2.0 3.7 Arising on acquisitions 0.4 6.1 6.5 At end of period 14.9 17.9 32.8 Dignity plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 20 Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets Non trade deficits Pensions Other Total m m m m At beginning of period 11.6 2.1 2.1 15.8 Charged credited to income statement note 6 4.8 0.1 0.2 4.5 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate taken to other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate taken to equity 0.1 0.1 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate taken to the income statement 0.1 0.2 0.3 Taken to other comprehensive income 0.3 0.3 Taken to equity 0.1 0.1 At end of period 6.7 2.3 2.1 11.1 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision at 25 December 2015 was 21.7 million 2014: 13.6 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities includes trade names and capital gains rolled forward, other deferred tax assets includes option schemes 1.7 million 2014: 1.6 million and long service awards 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million.
Elements of these deferred tax balances may be payable recoverable within one year.
However, the Directors consider that it is not possible to quantify the amount because the level of uncertainty in the timing of events and have therefore classified the whole balance as due after more than one year.
The deferred income tax credited to other comprehensive income or charged to equity during the period was as follows: 52 week 52 week period ended period ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax credit on remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.3 2.2 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate 0.2 Total credited to other comprehensive income 0.1 2.2 Deferred tax charge relating to maturity of option schemes 0.1 0.3 Restatement of deferred tax for the change in UK tax rate 0.1 Total credited to equity 0.3 21 Financial instruments Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at relevant interest rates.
Trade receivables are held net of provision for impairment.
Fair value estimation IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
All assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97 21 Financial instruments continued a Fair value of current and noncurrent financial assets and liabilities 25 December 2015 26 December 2014 Nominal value Book value Fair value Nominal value Book value Fair value m m m m m m New A Notes 3.5456% maturing 31 December 2034 230.8 230.5 238.7 238.9 238.6 248.5 New B Notes 4.6956% maturing 31 December 2049 356.4 356.0 376.8 356.4 356.0 394.7 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 15.8 15.7 15.8 15.8 15.6 15.8 Finance leases 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Total 603.7 602.9 632.0 611.8 610.9 659.7 The Crematoria Acquisition Facility and New A and New B Notes are held at amortised cost.
Finance lease payables represent the present value of future minimum lease payments.
Other categories of financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, however there is no difference between the book value and fair value of these items.
The fair values of the New A and New B Notes are their market value at the balance sheet date and are considered to be level 1.
The fair value of the Crematoria Acquisition Facility is considered to be nominal value, given the nature of the loan and the source of the cash flows support its repayment and is considered to be level 3. b Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest costs yet to be incurred.
25 December 2015 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities New Notes gross 8.3 8.7 9.0 19.0 542.2 587.2 Interest payable on New Notes 24.8 24.5 24.2 47.5 440.2 561.2 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 15.8 15.8 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.1 1.1 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.6 2.9 Debt repayments 33.7 33.8 49.2 66.5 985.0 1,168.2 Other financial liabilities 54.9 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.8 57.0 88.6 34.1 49.5 67.2 985.8 1,225.2 26 December 2014 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities New Notes gross 8.1 8.3 8.7 18.3 551.9 595.3 Interest payable on New Notes 17.7 24.8 24.5 48.2 463.7 578.9 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 15.8 15.8 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.1 1.6 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.7 3.0 Debt repayments 26.3 33.7 33.8 82.5 1,018.3 1,194.6 Other financial liabilities 45.9 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.7 48.0 72.2 34.1 34.1 83.2 1,019.0 1,242.6 Dignity plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 21 Financial instruments continued The amounts disclosed in the tables below represent the anticipated amortisation profile for the issue costs relating to the Groups financial liabilities.
25 December 2015 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Non-cash liabilities Issue costs on New Notes 0.7 0.7 Issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.8 26 December 2014 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Non-cash liabilities Issue costs on New Notes 0.7 0.7 Issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 c Trade receivables As at 25 December 2015, 11.4 million of the individual gross trade receivables 2014: 8.6 million were past due and partially impaired.
The amount of the provision, as at 25 December 2015, was 5.7 million 2014: 4.9 million.
The individually impaired receivables principally relate to monies owing for funerals performed by the funeral services division.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m One to six months 7.0 4.6 Over six months 4.4 4.0 11.4 8.6 The amount of gross trade receivables past due that were not impaired was not significant.
Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m At beginning of period 4.9 4.5 Charged to income statement 2.2 1.6 Utilised in period 1.4 1.2 At end of period 5.7 4.9 d Borrowing facilities i The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 25 December 2015, all of which were at floating interest rates, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Expiring within one year 26.2 Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 60.0 60.0 86.2 60.0 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99 21 Financial instruments continued 55.0 million 2014: 55.0 million of the undrawn facilities available to the Group is a liquidity facility relating to the Class A and B Secured Notes.
This facility may only be used to repay interest and principal on the Secured Notes in the event of insufficient cash to service these instruments.
The facility is subject to annual renewal.
However, if the bank providing the facility does not renew it, then the provider is required to place 55.0 million 2014: 55.0 million in a bank account, which the Group may access as if it represented a borrowing facility on the same terms.
The facility is available on these terms until the Secured Notes have been repaid in full.
26.2 million relates to an acquisition facility provided by the Royal Bank of Scotland.
It is a committed facility, capable of being drawn until June 2016.
If drawn, the facility is repayable in June 2019.
Further details may be found in the Financial Review.
The remaining 5.0 million facility expires in October 2019.
These facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
ii The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Not later than one year 0.1 0.1 Later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 More than five years 2.6 2.7 2.9 3.0 Future finance costs on finance leases 2.2 2.3 Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.7 22 Ordinary share capital 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Allotted and fully paid Equity shares 49,420,291 2014: 49,170,180 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence 2014: 12 48 143 pence each 6.1 6.1 Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period, the Group received nil consideration in relation to the 249,067 shares issued under the 2012 LTIP scheme, nil million 2014: nil million consideration in relation to the 1,044 2014: 14,896 shares issued under the 2013 SAYE scheme.
Changes in issued share capital 2014 On 31 October 2014, the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received 11 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each held at close of business on 31 October 2014.
As a result of the Return of Cash undertaken in the year, bonus shares of 16,795,058 B Shares with a nominal value of 1.20 per share and 36,845,858 C Shares were issued.
The B Shares were issued and redeemed for cash at par in November 2014.
The C Shares were issued in November 2014 and converted to Deferred Shares on the same day.
The deferred shares were subsequently repurchased for nominal consideration.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares Certain employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under an approved Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme started in 2013.
In addition, Executive Directors and senior management hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under LongTerm Incentive Plans LTIPs awarded in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
Dignity plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 22 Ordinary share capital continued The total number of outstanding shares subject to options excluding lapses, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below: Exercise price 2015 2014 2013 Year of grant pence Exercise period Number Number Number 1 December 2016 2013 SAYE 1,469.00 to 31 May 2017 119,810 130,364 149,318 20 March 2016 2013 LTIP to 18 March 2023 215,270 217,270 217,270 25 March 2017 2014 LTIP to 24 March 2024 184,780 186,780 n a 6 March 2017 2015 LTIP to 5 March 2025 155,540 n a n a 23 Sharebased payments In respect of sharebased payment arrangements, total charges to the income statement were 2.4 million 2014: 2.0 million.
The Directors consider that these amounts are not material and hence further detailed disclosures have been omitted.
24 Net debt 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Net amounts owing on New Notes 586.5 594.6 Add: unamortised issue costs note 16 a 0.7 0.7 Gross amounts owing on Secured Notes per financial statements 587.2 595.3 Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility per financial statements 15.7 15.6 Add: unamortised issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility note 16 c 0.1 0.2 Gross amounts owing 603.0 611.1 Accrued interest on Secured Notes 12.8 5.7 Accrued interest on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 15 98.8 86.5 Net debt 517.1 530.3 In addition to the above, the consolidated balance sheet also includes finance lease obligations and other financial liabilities which totalled 0.7 million 2014: 0.7 million.
These amounts do not represent sources of funding for the Group and are therefore excluded from the calculation of net debt.
The Groups primary financial covenant in respect of the New Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be at least 1.5 times.
At 25 December 2015, the actual ratio was 3.35 times 2014: 10.69 times.
On this basis, the EBITDA DSCR would have been 2.95 times.
These ratios are calculated for EBITDA and total debt service on a 12 month rolling basis and reported quarterly.
In addition, both terms are specifically defined in the legal agreement relating to the Secured Notes.
As such, they cannot be accurately calculated from the contents of this report.
See note 5 and the Groups 2014 Annual Report for further details of the replacement of the Old Notes.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 25 Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Net profit loss for the period 56.9 55.0 Adjustments for: Taxation 12.1 12.7 Net finance costs 26.5 26.4 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.3 Depreciation charges 14.5 13.3 Amortisation of intangibles 0.1 0.2 Movement in inventories 0.1 0.2 Movement in trade receivables 1.6 0.3 Movement in trade payables 3.2 0.6 External transaction costs 3.2 1.7 Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Changes in other working capital excluding acquisitions 7.8 4.1 Employee share option charges note 23 2.4 2.0 Cash generated from operations before external transaction costs and exceptional pension contributions 125.2 104.4 Other non-cash transactions In 2014, as described in note 5, the Group exchanged Old Notes with a book value of 404.6 million for New Notes with a value of 501.3 million and cash of 5.9 million.
Noncash charges also comprise amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, as discussed in note 16 a.
26 Acquisitions a Acquisition of subsidiary and other businesses Other Laurel Funerals acquisitions Total provisional provisional provisional fair value fair value fair value m m m Property, plant and equipment 2.1 1.4 3.5 Intangible assets: trade names 26.6 6.0 32.6 Cash acquired 0.4 0.9 1.3 Receivables 0.5 0.5 1.0 Provisions note 19 0.6 0.2 0.8 Other working capital 1.0 0.9 1.9 Deferred taxation note 20 5.6 0.9 6.5 Net assets acquired 22.4 6.8 29.2 Goodwill arising 16.1 3.1 19.2 38.5 9.9 48.4 Satisfied by: Cash paid on completion funded from internally generated cash flows 48.6 Accrued consideration 0.5 1 Reduction in consideration payable for 2014 acquisitions 0.7 Total consideration 48.4 1 Consideration payable for two acquisitions made in 2014 was reduced following the finalisation of completion accounts in accordance with the sale and purchase agreements of these acquisitions.
The residual excess of the consideration paid over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill, of which 0.8 million is tax deductable.
This goodwill represents future benefits to the Group in terms of revenue, market share and delivering the Groups strategy.
The fair values ascribed reflect provisional amounts, which will be finalised in 2016 once acquisition working capital balances have been converted into cash.
These fair values reflect the recognition of trade names and associated deferred taxation, and adjustments to reflect the fair value of other working capital items such as receivables, inventories and accruals which are immaterial.
Each acquisition made followed the Groups strategy to acquire such locations that will help the Group grow and create value for shareholders.
Dignity plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 26 Acquisitions continued It is also not possible to quantify the results of these businesses prior to acquisition as it represents confidential information relating to the vendors, which the Directors do not have authority to disclose.
Post acquisition operating performance of these acquisitions is disclosed in note 3 to the Annual Report.
Laurel Funerals On 13 July 2015, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of LMF Equityco Limited Laurel Funerals for a consideration of 38.1 million net of 0.4 million cash acquired.
Laurel Funerals owns and operates 36 funeral locations.
If the Group had owned Laurel Funerals for the entire period, then the estimated revenue for the Laurel Funerals would be 10.4 million and the estimated operating profit would be 4.1 million.
These estimates assume an extrapolation of the Laurel Funerals operating performance post acquisition.
No material changes resulted from aligning the Laurel Funerals accounting policies to those of the Group.
No tax deductions are expected in relation to the goodwill recognised.
This acquisition has been accounted for under the acquisition method and disclosed separately.
Other acquisitions During 2015, the Group also acquired the operational interest of 12 funeral locations.
These transactions were either acquisitions of trade and assets or acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of a limited company.
All other acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method.
None were individually material and consequently have been aggregated.
b Reconciliation to cash flow statement 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Cash paid on completion 48.6 29.0 Cash paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 2.7 Cash acquired on acquisition 1.3 4.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses as reported in the cash flow statement 50.0 24.7 27 Employees and Directors 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 83.6 73.4 Social security costs 5.9 5.2 Other pension costs note 28 2.8 2.2 Share option charges note 23 2.4 2.0 94.7 82.8 Key management are considered to be the Board of Directors only.
Total key management remuneration in the period was 4.6 million 2014: 4.3 million, including 1.4 million 2014: 1.3 million of share option charges.
The monthly average number of people, including Directors, employed by the Group during the period was as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number Management and administration 173 159 Funeral services staff 2,373 2,229 Crematoria staff 327 324 Prearranged funeral plan staff 92 76 2,965 2,788 Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 56 to 62 which form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103 28 Pension commitments Defined contribution plans The Group contributes to certain individuals personal pension schemes.
These contributions are accounted for as defined contribution schemes.
Auto enrolment A defined contribution scheme is used to address the Groups obligations for auto enrolment.
Both the employee and the Group contribute four per cent of pensionable pay.
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Defined contribution schemes 1.1 0.9 Defined benefit plan The Group operates a defined benefit scheme the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2014 and updated to 25 December 2015 by a qualified independent Actuary.
After consultation with members of the defined benefit plan, the Group closed the scheme to new entrants on 1 October 2013 and employee contributions were increased to 10 per cent from 7 per cent of pensionable salaries, with the Group contributing the same amount an increase from 9.2 per cent.
The total monetary contribution paid by the employer for 2015 was 1.4 million 2014: 1.6 million.
In addition special contributions of nil million 2014: 1.0 million have been paid to make the total contribution for the year 1.4 million 2014: 2.6 million.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages were: 2015 2014 Assumptions % % Discount rate 3.8 3.7 Rate of increase in salaries 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase in payment of post April 1997 pensionable service 3.05 3.05 Rate of increase in payment of post April 2005 pensionable service 2.15 2.15 RPI price inflation assumption 3.1 3.1 CPI price inflation assumption 2.1 2.1 The demographic assumptions used include rates for mortality which, for example, lead to an average projected life expectancy of 20.7 2014: 20.7 years for male members and 26.1 2014: 26.0 years for female members currently aged 65 and of 22.0 2014: 21.9 years from age 65 for male members and 27.6 2014: 27.5 years from age 65 for female members currently aged 50.
Pensions and other postretirement obligations The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fair value of plan assets 94.4 95.0 Present value of funded obligations 106.9 105.5 Net obligation recognised in the balance sheet 12.5 10.5 Analysis of amount charged to income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes 2015 2014 m m Current service cost included within cost of sales staff costs 1.7 1.3 Interest costs less interest income included within net finance cost 0.3 Expected contributions to the Groups pension scheme for the 53 week period ended 30 December 2016 are approximately 1.5 million.
Dignity plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 28 Pensions continued Analysis of fair value of plan assets 2015 2014 m % m % Equity and diversified growth funds 43.0 45.5 60.7 63.9 Debt 28.0 29.7 25.4 26.7 Cash 23.4 24.8 8.9 9.4 Fair value of plan assets 94.4 100.0 95.0 100.0 At 25 December 2015 and 26 December 2014 the Pension Trustees did not hold, on behalf of the scheme, any direct investments in the Group, nor did the Group occupy any property or other assets included with the fair value of plan assets.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Present value of obligation at beginning of period 105.5 92.2 Current service cost 1.7 1.3 Interest cost 3.8 4.2 Benefits paid 4.2 3.7 Contributions by participants 1.5 1.5 Remeasurement gains losses financial 1.9 12.4 Remeasurement gains demographic 1.0 Remeasurement losses gains experience 0.5 1.4 Present value of obligation at end of period 106.9 105.5 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 95.0 91.2 Interest income on plan assets 3.5 4.2 Contributions by Group 1.4 2.6 Contributions by participants 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 4.2 3.7 Remeasurement losses 2.8 0.8 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 94.4 95.0 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet obligation 2015 2014 m m At beginning of period 10.5 1.0 Total expense as above charged to the income statement 2.0 1.3 Remeasurement losses charged to other comprehensive income 1.4 10.8 Contributions by Group 1.4 2.6 At end of period 12.5 10.5 The actual return on plan assets was 0.7 million 2014: 3.5 million.
History of experience gains and losses 2015 2014 Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.5 1.4 Percentage of the present value of the schemes liabilities 0.5% 1.3% Present value of scheme liabilities m 106.9 105.5 Fair value of scheme assets m 94.4 95.0 Deficit m 12.5 10.5 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105 28 Pensions continued Increase decrease in Liabilities Assets Deficit surplus Change in assumptions m m m m No change 106.9 94.4 12.5 0.25% rise in discount rate 102.5 94.4 8.1 4.4 0.25% fall in discount rate 111.7 94.4 17.3 4.8 0.25% rise in inflation 109.7 94.4 15.3 2.8 0.25% fall in inflation 103.9 94.4 9.5 3.0 The above sensitivity analysis has been determined by applying the results of a fully accurate sensitivity analysis as at 6 April 2015 to the value placed on the Scheme liabilities as at 25 December 2015, assuming that the proportionate impact of the change in assumptions would be the same.
It does not, therefore, allow for the impact of membership movements since 6 April 2015, although these would not be material.
The same methodology was used for the sensitivity analysis undertaken for the year ending 26 December 2014.
Analysis of present value of scheme liabilities 2015 2014 Active members 38% 36% Deferred pensioners 27% 26% Current pensioners 35% 38% Average duration of liabilities 17 years 18 years Scheme characteristic The scheme is a final salary defined benefits scheme which was closed to new entrants on 1 October 2013.
It is administered by trustees in accordance with its Trust Deed & Rules and relevant legislation.
Member contributions are fixed with the employer meeting the balance of the costs of providing scheme benefits.
The contribution payable by the employer are set by the trustees after consulting the employer and in accordance with the funding requirements of the Pensions Act 2004.
Funding arrangements The Trustees use Projected Unit funding method.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation was undertaken as at 6 April 2014.
Currently both the Employer and Scheme members pay contributions at the rate of 10 per cent of pensionable pay.
The employer contributions include allowances for expenses of administering the scheme.
Funding Risks Investment return risk If the assets underperform the returns assumed in setting the funding targets then additional contributions may be required at subsequent valuations.
Investment match risk The scheme invests significantly in equities, whereas the funding targets are closely related to the returns on bonds.
If equities fall in value relative to the matching asset of bonds, additional contributions may be required.
Longevity risk If future improvements in longevity exceed the assumptions made for scheme funding then additional contributions may be required.
29 Prearranged funeral plans a Contingent liabilities and commitments Dignity Prearrangement Limited, Dignity Securities Limited and Advance Planning Limited are fellow members of the Dignity Group in the United Kingdom.
These companies have sold prearranged funeral plans to their clients in the past.
All monies from these sales are held and controlled by three independent Trusts, being the National Funeral Trust, the Dignity Limited Trust Fund and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans respectively the Principal Trusts.
Further details of the transactions can be found in the financial statements of these companies, which are available from 4 King Edwards Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands, B73 6AP.
The Group has given commitments to these clients to perform their funeral.
The agreed amounts payable to either the Group or to third party funeral directors will be paid out of the funds held in the Trusts.
The majority of the trustees of each of the prearranged funeral plan trusts are unconnected to the Group, as required by current UK legislation.
It is the view of the Directors that none of the commitments given to these clients, which are explained further below, are onerous to the Group.
However ultimately, the Group is obligated to perform these funerals in exchange for the assets of the Trust, whatever they may be.
Dignity plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 29 Prearranged funeral plans continued Similar commitments have arisen following acquisitions of businesses, since 2013, which have sold prearranged funeral plans through similar trust based structures the Recent Trusts.
Only the National Funeral Trust and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans receive funds relating to the sale of new plans the Active Trusts.
b Prearranged funeral plan trust assets As noted above, the Group has given commitments to perform the funerals covered by the prearranged plans, regardless of whether or not the Trusts have available assets to fund the funeral.
The Group, therefore, has a potential exposure in the form of a reduced fee should the Trusts investment strategy, over which it has no control, fail to deliver an appropriate return or result in a fall in underlying asset values, or if the cost of delivery for a funeral increase at rates in excess of investment returns.
The Trustees have informed the Group that they have, following independent external advice, completed a restructuring of the Trusts investments following a review of the Trusts investment strategy.
Under their revised strategy the Trustees intend holding investments in the following approximate profile: Target % Equities 22 Alternative investments 13 Developed credit and cash 65 Equities will in the main be invested in developed markets, but will contain an exposure to emerging markets.
Alternative investments relate to investments in markets such as reinsurance, emerging market debt and property funds.
This change in the Trusts investment strategy is expected to enhance investment returns in the longerterm for a similar level of risk.
The strategy will, however, potentially result in greater volatility year on year in the reported value of the Trusts assets.
The trustees have advised that the market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 736.0 million at 25 December 2015 2014: 678.0 million in respect of 290,000 2014: 275,000 active prearranged funeral plans.
49,000 2014: 46,000 of the remaining active prearranged funeral plans related to those backed by Insurance Plans, as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, with the balance of 35,000 2014: 27,000 being plans arising from acquisitions.
The trustees of the Principal Trusts are required to have the Trusts liabilities actuarially valued once a year once every three years in the case of the Recent Trusts.
This actuarial valuation is of liabilities of the Trusts to secure funerals through Dignity and other third party funeral directors and does not, in respect of those funerals delivered by the Group represent the cost of delivery of the funeral.
It is only in the event that there are insufficient funds within the Trusts to cover the cost of delivery to Dignity that the commitment would become onerous to Dignity as described in a above.
The trustees have advised that the latest actuarial valuations of the Principal Trusts were performed as at 25 September 2015 2014: 26 September 2014 using assumptions determined by the trustees.
These valuations showed the Trusts to have liabilities in respect of the prearranged funeral plan trusts of 692.1 million as at 25 September 2015 2014: 612.9 million.
The corresponding market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 696.9 million 2014: 630.6 million as at the same date.
Consequently the actuarial valuations recorded total surpluses of 4.8 million at 25 September 2015 2014: 17.7 million.
The trustees have advised that the Recent Trusts have approximately 22 million of assets as at the balance sheet date and no material surplus or deficit.
Transactions with the Group During the period, the Group entered into transactions with the Principal Trusts and the Recent Trusts the Trusts associated with the prearranged funeral plan businesses.
The nature of the relationship with the Trusts is set out above and in the accounting policies.
Amounts may only be paid out of the Trusts in accordance with the relevant Trust Deeds.
Transactions principally comprise: The recovery of marketing and administration allowances in relation to plans sold net of cancellations which are recognised by the Group as revenue within the prearranged funeral plan division at the time of the sale : and Receipts from the Trusts in respect of funerals provided which are recognised by the Group as revenue within the funeral division when the funeral is performed.
Transactions also include: Receipts from the Trusts in respect of cancellations by existing members: Reimbursement by the Trusts of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of the respective Trusts: and The payment of realised surpluses generated by the Trust funds as and when the trustees sanction such payments.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107 29 Prearranged funeral plans continued Transactions are summarised below: Amounts due to the Transactions during the period Group at the period end 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Dignity Limited Trust Fund 0.3 0.3 National Funeral Trust 41.5 34.8 4.7 3.6 Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans 38.5 35.1 4.6 5.3 Recent Trusts 2.0 1.5 0.4 0.3 Total 82.3 71.7 9.7 9.2 Amounts due to the Group from the Trusts are included in Trade and other receivables.
The above transactions were included within revenue under the following captions: Transactions during the period 2015 2014 m m Funeral services revenue 40.0 32.1 Prearranged funeral plans revenue 29.0 28.0 In addition to the transactions recognised within revenue in the table above, there were 13.3 million 2014: 11.6 million of transactions between the Group and the Trusts which represented amounts paid to the Group to reimburse them for trust expenses, monies repaid to members on cancellation and monies paid to third parties for the performance of some funeral services: all of which have no impact on the income statement.
Average transaction amounts The trustees have advised that the Trusts hold assets of approximately 2,500 2014: 2,400 per active plan at the balance sheet date.
On average the Group received approximately 2,450 2014: 2,300 in the period for the performance of each funeral including amounts to cover disbursements such as crematoria fees, ministers fees and doctors fees.
30 Contingent liabilities a Securitisation BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Security Trustee of the New Notes has the following guarantees and charges: The Dignity 2002 Group have granted the Security Trustee fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of i the Dignity 2002 Group: Dignity plc has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2004 Limited, Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity 2011 Limited and Dignity Holdings No.
3 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited and Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Mezzco Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loans both interest and non interest bearing to Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Mezzco Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loan to Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a floating charge over the assets now or in the future owned by Dignity 2004 Limited other than those assets validly and effectively charged by way of fixed security : Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a floating charge over the assets now or in the future owned by each of Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited other than those assets validly and effectively charged by way of fixed security : ii The Guarantors each irrevocably and unconditionally jointly and severally guarantees to the Security Trustee punctual performance by each other Obligor of that Obligor's obligations and agrees as a primary obligation to indemnify the Security Trustee immediately on demand against any cost, loss or liability suffered by it if any obligation guaranteed by the Guarantors is or becomes unenforceable, invalid or illegal: Dignity plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 30 Contingent liabilities continued Dignity Funerals Limited and Derriman & Haynes Funeral Services Limited has granted the Security Trustee with full title guarantee, a first legal mortgage over each of its rights, title and interest from time to time in properties situated in England and Wales: iii Dignity Funerals Limited has granted the Security Trustee with full title guarantee, a first legal mortgage over its rights, title and interest from time to time in properties situated in Northern Ireland: Dignity Finance PLC has granted BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Note Trustee with full title guarantee, an assignment by way of security of its benefit in each Issuer Transaction Document other than the Trust Documents, the Security Trust Deed and each Obligor Security Document and charges by way of first fixed charge the benefit of its accounts: and Dignity Funerals Limited has, in respect of any Scottish property which is capable of being so charged, granted 'standard iv securities' in favour of the Security Trustee.
i Means Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
ii Means the Obligors other than Dignity 2002 Limited as Borrower, Dignity 2004 Limited, Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited.
iii This mortgage is governed by the laws of Northern Ireland.
iv The standard securities are governed by Scots Law.
At 25 December 2015, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 587.2 million 2014: 595.3 million.
b Crematoria Acquisition Facility As a consequence of the legal structure of the 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility: Dignity 2008 Limited has granted NatWest, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Crematoria Limited and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity Crematoria Limited and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited have granted NatWest fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of each of Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity Crematoria Limited, and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited: and Dignity plc have acted as guarantor in the event that Dignity 2008 Limited fails to pay interest due on the facility.
In the opinion of the Directors no liability is likely to crystallise in respect of these guarantees.
At 25 December 2015, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 15.8 million 2014: 15.8 million.
31 Related party transactions There are no related party transactions for either period.
32 Post balance sheet events The Group has acquired one funeral location since the balance sheet date.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109 Dignity plc Company balance sheet as at 25 December 2015 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C2 143.4 141.0 Current assets Debtors C3 207.9 160.7 Cash at bank and in hand 46.3 32.4 Total current assets 254.2 193.1 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year C4 13.9 12.7 Net current assets 240.3 180.4 Total assets less current liabilities 383.7 321.4 Net assets 383.7 321.4 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C5 6.1 6.1 Share premium account C5 4.8 2.8 Capital redemption reserve C5 141.7 141.7 Other reserves C5 3.6 3.2 Profit and loss account C5 227.5 167.6 Total shareholders funds C6 383.7 321.4 The financial statements on pages 109 to 115 were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: M K McCollum S L Whittern Chief Executive Finance Director Dignity plc 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 C1 Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in the financial statements.
In the current period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015.
For the comparative period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014.
Furthermore, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 29, Financial Instruments and Disclosures, not to disclose details of any financial instruments held.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
Impairment of fixed assets The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or at the end of the first full financial year following the recognition.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets below depreciated historical cost is charged to the profit and loss account within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Employee share schemes The Company operates two employee share schemes: The Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE and LongTerm Incentive Plan Scheme LTIP.
The Company applies UITF 44 in respect of share option schemes resulting in the charge for such schemes being recognised in a subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys financial statements reflect the cost of the scheme as an increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiary with the corresponding credit included within other reserves.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the substance of the transaction, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111 C2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings Cost and net book amount m At beginning of period 141.0 Additions in respect of sharebased payments 2.4 At end of period 143.4 Additions in the period reflect the effect of capital contributions to subsidiaries as a result of sharebased payment schemes operated in those companys over the shares of Dignity plc.
A detailed listing of all subsidiary undertakings is included in note C9 below.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
C3 Debtors 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed by group undertakings 207.2 160.4 Other debtors 0.1 0.1 Corporation tax 0.6 0.2 207.9 160.7 C4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 13.4 12.4 Accruals 0.5 0.3 13.9 12.7 C5 Called up share capital and reserves 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Allotted and fully paid Equity shares 49,420,291 2014: 49,170,180 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence 2014: 12 48 143 pence each 6.1 6.1 Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
See note 22 of the Groups consolidated accounts for further details.
Share Capital premium redemption Other Profit and account reserve reserves loss account Total Reserves and share premium account m m m m m At beginning of period 2.8 141.7 3.2 167.6 315.3 Profit for the period 69.9 69.9 Effects of employee share options 2.4 2.4 Proceeds from share issue 2.0 2.0 Gift to Employee Benefit Trust 2.0 2.0 Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares 10.0 10.0 At end of period 4.8 141.7 3.6 227.5 377.6 The capital redemption reserve represents 80,002,465 B Shares that were issued on 2 August 2006 and redeemed for cash on the same day, 19,274,610 B Shares that were issued on 10 October 2010 and redeemed for cash on 11 October 2010, 22,263,112 B Shares that were issued on 12 August 2013 and redeemed for cash on 20 August 2013 and 20,154,070 B Shares that were issued and redeemed for cash in November 2014.
Other reserves Other reserves includes movements relating to the Groups SAYE and LTIP schemes.
Dignity plc 112 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 C6 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 25 December 26 December 2015 2014 m m Profit for the period 69.9 94.7 Effects of employee share options 2.4 2.0 Proceeds from share issue 2.0 2.2 Gift to Employee Benefit Trust 2.0 2.0 Issue and redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital Option 20.1 Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option 44.3 Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares 10.0 9.8 Net additions to shareholders funds 62.3 22.7 Opening shareholders funds 321.4 298.7 Closing shareholders funds 383.7 321.4 Amounts payable to the Groups auditors relating to the Company are included in note 5 of the Group financial statements and are not material to disclose separately.
C7 Staff costs Directors remuneration The Directors are directors of the ultimate parent company, Dignity plc and details of their emoluments are included in pages 56 to 62.
They received no emoluments in respect of their services to the Company 2014: nil.
C8 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings, whose voting rights are controlled within the Dignity plc group.
There are no other related party transactions for either period requiring disclosure.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113 C9 Subsidiary undertakings Principal subsidiaries Company name Principal activity Advance Planning Limited Pre-arranged funeral plans Dignity 2002 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Crematoria Limited Construction and leasing of crematoria Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited Construction and leasing of crematoria Dignity Finance PLC Finance company Dignity Funerals Limited Funeral services Dignity Funerals No.
3 Limited Funeral services Dignity Pre Arrangement Limited Pre-arranged funeral plans Dignity Securities Limited Pre-arranged funeral plans Pitcher & Le Quesne Limited Funeral services Other subsidiaries Company name Principal activity Birkbeck Securities Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity 2004 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity 2008 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity 2011 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity 2014 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Finance Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Holdings No.
3 Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity Mezzco Limited Finance company Dignity Services Intermediate holding company Recent acquisition companies dormant from 2016 Company name Principal activity Astley Funerals Limited Funeral services Dewi Reynolds & Sons Limited Funeral services Dignity Funerals No.
4 Limited Funeral services F. J. Gibb Limited Funeral services Graham Sullivan Funeral Directors Limited Funeral services H Johnson & Sons Limited Funeral services Mahony & Ward Limited Funeral services T J Brown & Sons Limited Funeral services Arthur J. Nash Limited Intermediate holding company F. Jennings & Sons Limited Intermediate holding company F. M. & J.
Wait & Co Limited Intermediate holding company K. Y.
Green Limited Intermediate holding company W H Scott & Son Limited Intermediate holding company Dignity plc 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 C9 Subsidiary undertakings continued Dormant companies Downer & White Limited H. Dorricott & J.
Bent Limited A & N Duckworth Limited A Ashton & Sons Limited Downs Crematorium Limited H. G. Brown & Sanders Limited Dowsett & Jenkins Limited H. Hill Funeral Service Limited A Bennett & Sons Limited A F Townsend Funeral Directors Limited Dundee Crematorium Limited H. R. H. Holdings Limited Dunning Undertaking Limited Hambrook & Johns Limited A Hazel & Sons Limited A Shepherd & Sons Limited Dyson Richards Limited Hanningtons Funeral Directors Limited Hardacres Funeral Directors Limited A T Genders Limited A V Band Limited E Hurton & Son Limited Harry Williams & Sons Cambridge Limited E M Lander Limited Heighton & Son Limited A. Haxby & Sons Filey Limited Abbey Funeral Service Limited E Seymour & Son Limited Hemley Funeral Service Limited E. Brigham Funeral Directors Limited Henry Naylor Funeral Directors Limited Adela Funeral Homes Limited Anglian Funeral Service Limited E. F. Edwards Limited Henry Paul Limited Armitage Funeral Directors Limited E. Finch & Sons Limited Henry Smith Wandsworth Limited Arthur Denyer Limited Earl Of Plymouth Limited Highfield Funeral Service Limited Arthur G Whitehead Westminster Limited Eden Park Estate Limited Hindu Funeral Service Limited Ashton & Ebbutt Limited Edmund & Lewis Limited Hodgson Holdings Scotland Limited Ashton Ebbutt Holdings Limited Edward Lewis Wicks & Sons Limited Hodgson Holdings Limited Ashton Memorials Limited Ely Funeral Service Limited Holdfast Funerals Limited Ashtons Brighton Limited Ever 1324 Limited Howard Jenkins Edge Hill Limited Hunters Funeral Directors Limited Associated Funeral Services Limited Ever 1326 Limited Ever 1327 Limited Ian Clarke Funeral Service Limited B & B Funeral Directors Limited Exeter & Devon Crematorium Limited B. Bernard & Sons Limited Ingall Services Limited Invicta Memorials Limited Baguley Bros. Limited F L Mildred & Sons Funeral Directors Limited Banks Funeral Service Limited F. Kneeshaw & Sons Funeral Directors Limited J H Kenyon Limited Birmingham Crematorium 1973 Limited F. E. J.
Green & Sons Limited Boyce Anderson Motors Limited F. G. Pymm Funeral Directors Limited J H Raven Limited J Kynaston Limited Bracher Brothers Limited F. Harrison & Son Funeral Directors Limited Brighton Stonemasons Limited F. Smith & Son Staines Limited J Steadman & Sons Limited J. W. Tate & Son Holdings Limited Broadwater Limousines Limited Family Funeral Services Limited Broomco 2013 Limited Farebrother Funeral Services Limited J. W. Tate & Son Limited Jack Lee & Sons Limited Fisher & Townsend Funeral Directors Limited C Powell Funeral Service Limited Flowers By Design Limited James Allen & Son Disley Limited James Crook Limited Caledonian Funeral Services Limited Ford Ennals Funeral Services Limited Carrwood Funeral Supplies Limited Forethought Limited John & William Shering Limited John Bardgett & Sons Limited Castle Court Funeral & Limousine Services Francis Chappel & Sons Limited Limited Frank Stephenson & Son Funeral Directors John G Ashton & Co Funeral Directors Limited Johnson Funeral Supplies Limited Chichester Crematorium Limited Limited Chosen Heritage Scotland Limited Frederick W Chitty & Co Limited Johnson-Sears Limited Jonathan Harvey Limited Chosen Heritage Limited Fredk.
W. Paine Limited Chosen Heritage Services Limited Funeral Debt Collection Limited Joseph Swift Funeral Director Limited Joseph Tomlinson & Sons Limited Clegg Humphreys Limited Funeral Services London Limited Cooksey & Son Limited Joslin Memorials 1974 Limited Cooksley & Son Limited G. M. Charlesworth & Son Limited Coombes & Sons Bovey Tracey Limited G. F. Cook Funerals Limited Kellaways Funeral Service Limited Ken Gregory & Sons Limited Counties Crematorium Limited G. F. Hunt Bath Limited Coyne Brothers Limited G. Gamble & Son Limited Kent Funeral Supplies Limited Kenyon Air Transportation Limited Cumbernauld Funeral Services Ltd G. Smith Wooburn Limited Cyril H. Lovegrove Limited George Hall & Son Funeral Directors Limited Kenyon Emergency Services Limited Kenyon Repatriation Limited George S. Munn & Company, Limited D J Thomas Funeral Directors Limited George Stanton 1935 Limited Kenyon Securities Limited Kenyons Funeral Directors Limited D. J. Evans Forse & Co Limited Gerald Martin Funeral Directors Limited D. Walsh & Son Limited Ginns & Gutteridge Limited Kirkwoods Funeral Directors Limited Daly & Company Limited Gornalls Funeral Services Limited David B Hendry Limited Grave Design Limited L Fulcher Limited L J Clegg Limited David Silvey & Son Limited Great Southern Group Limited Davis McMullan Funeral Directors Limited Grimmett & Timms Limited Lambeth & Brixton Community Funeral Services Limited Derriman & Haynes Funeral Services Limited Dignity 2009 Limited H & G Wilde Funeral Directors Limited Lambeth Funeral Services Limited Lea Valley Funeral Services Limited Dignity Caring Funeral Services Limited H A Harrold & Son Limited Dignity Funerals No.
2 Limited H J Dawson Limited Leeds Limousines Limited Leehope Services Limited Dignity In Destiny Limited H J Phillips & Son Funeral Directors Limited Dignity Legal Services Limited H Leslie Humphreys Limited London Necropolis Company Limited Longhurst Undertakers Limited Dignity Manufacturing Limited H Tonkin Limited Dillistone Funeral Service Limited H. J. Whalley & Sons Limited Lowden Wells Limited Docklands Funeral Services Limited H. Towell Ltd Dottridge Brothers Limited H. Copeland & Son Limited Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 115 C9 Subsidiary undertakings continued Dormant companies continued MacIntosh & Steven Limited Ravenhill Funeral Services Limited U. F. D. Limited UK Funerals Limited Malcolm J Presland Limited Remembrance Limited Mannerings Limited Robemanor Limited UKF Limited Mathias's of Putney Limited Roberts & Brain Limited Maxwell Bros. Limited Romney Marsh Funeral Services Limited W G Dixon Limited W G Rathbone Funeral Directors Limited Meadow Pool Limited Rosspark Limited Mews & Yeatmans Limited W S Bond Limited W S Harrison & Son Limited Mid Sussex Funeral Services Limited S A Bates & Sons Limited Middleton & Wood 1919 Limited S Wellens & Sons Limited W Thorp & Sons Leigh-on-Sea Limited W. E. Turner Funeral Furnishers Limited Monumental Masons Limited Saftway Limited Moodys Funeral Directors Limited Salenew Limited W. Garstin & Sons Limited Walmsley Hammond Rayleigh Limited Moray Crematorium Holdings Limited Sanders Goodale & Co. Limited Moray Crematorium Limited SCI Pre Arrangement Limited Warburton Funerals Limited Wetton Funeral Services Limited Morecambe & Heysham Funeral Seaford Funeral Service Limited Service Limited Seddons of Southport Limited White Lady Funerals Limited Whyte Funeral Services Limited Selim Smith & Co. Limited N A Medd Limited Serenity Limited William Pearce & Son Limited Wilmshurst & Dickson Limited National Funeral Trust Limited Shankill Funeral Services Limited Newport Hire I. W. Limited Silver Lady Funeral Service Limited Woodfield Park Funeral Home Limited Newsome's Funeral Service Royston Limited Simplicity Funerals Limited Norfolk Crematorium Limited Simpsons Undertakers Requisites Limited Yew Holdings Limited Northampton Crematorium Limited Stanway & Garnett Funeral Service Limited Norwich Crematorium Holdings Limited Swift & Mildred Limited Norwich Crematorium Limited T & R O'Brien Limited Oxford Crematorium Limited T H Fenton Limited T S Annison & Sons Limited Patrick Stonemasons Limited T. S. Horlock & Son Limited Personal Choice Funeral Plan Limited T. H. Sanders & Higgs Limited PFG Hodgson Kenyon Services Limited T. H. Sanders & Sons Limited PFG Hodgson Kenyon UK Limited T. J. Davies & Sons Funeral Directors Limited PFG Hodgson Kenyon Limited Taylors Funerals Wirral Limited Philip Ford & Son Funeral Directors Limited The Crematorium Company Limited Phillips Funeral Plans Limited The Dignity Plan Limited Phillips Funeral Services Limited The East Riding Crematorium Phillips Holdings Hertfordshire Limited Company Limited Phillips Supplies Limited The Haltemprice Crematorium Limited Piccioni Masonry Limited The Lawrence Funeral Service Limited Plantsbrook Group Limited The Leverton Funeral Service Dartford Limited Plantsbrook Limited The South London & Southern Counties Preston Ireland Bowker Limited Cremation Society Limited The South London Crematorium Co Limited Priestley & Cockett Limited The Titford Funeral Service Limited Thomas Brothers Wellington and Taunton R Butler & Sons Limited R C Holden & Son Limited Limited Thompsons Busbys Limited R Garner Son & Wood Limited R. Davies & Son Limited Thompsons Funeral Furnishers Limited Thompsons Maguires Limited R. S. Johnson & Sons Limited R. S. Scott Funerals Limited Thompsons Rimmers Limited Tovey & Morris Limited All of the subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom except for Pitcher & Le Quesne Limited which is incorporated in Jersey.
All subsidiaries are controlled by the Group.
All of the above shareholdings are held indirectly, with the exception of Dignity 2004 Limited, Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity 2011 Limited and Dignity Holdings No.
Dignity plc owns, either directly or indirectly, 100 per cent of the equity interest of all the subsidiaries noted except for Pitcher & Le Quesne Limited where 99 per cent is owned.
