Dignity plc 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Other Information Shareholder information General enquiries may be addressed to the Company Secretary, Richard Portman, at the Companys registered office.
Other useful information is as follows: General information The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Company Registrars Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars, should be directed in the first instance to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti.
They also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.
co. uk where shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares and updating personal details.
Alternatively they can be contacted by telephone on 0371 384 2674 if calling from within the UK, or 44 0 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK, or by fax on 0371 384 2100 if faxing from within the UK, or 44 0 190 383 3113 if faxing from outside the UK.
Shareholder communications Shareholder documents are only sent in paper format to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way.
This approach enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published to advise them how to access the documents via the Group website at www.
Shareholders may also choose to receive this notification via e-mail with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish to receive e-mail notification should register online at www.
co. uk click on Register under the Portfolio section.
You will require your Shareholder Reference Number, which is given on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Choosing e-mail notification will result in you joining the Equiniti Shareview Service in accordance with its terms and conditions.
Share price information The latest Dignity plc share price can be obtained via the Companys investor website www.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations which may use it as a mailing list resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the receipt of such mail should register to do so with the Mailing Preference Service at www.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 June 2016, at 11.00am at DLA Piper UK LLP, Victoria Square House, Victoria Square, Birmingham, West Midlands, B2 4DL.
