144 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARDLOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements.
These increased competitive product and pricing pressures and unanticipated statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only actions by competitors that could impact Diageos market share, increase to historical or current facts.
In particular, forward-looking statements expenses and hinder growth potential: include all statements that express forecasts, expectations, plans, outlook the effects of Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks, the effects and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of business combinations, partnerships, acquisitions or disposals, of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of existing or future, and the ability to realise expected synergies and changes in interest or exchange rates, the availability or cost of financing or costs savings: to Diageo, anticipated cost savings or synergies, expected investments, Diageos ability to complete existing or future business combinations, the completion of Diageos strategic transactions and restructuring restructuring programmes, acquisitions and disposals: programmes, anticipated tax rates, expected cash payments, outcomes contamination, counterfeiting or other events that could adversely of litigation, anticipated deficit reductions in relation to pension schemes affect the perception of Diageos brands: and general economic conditions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and increased costs or shortages of talent: depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number disruption to production facilities or business service centres, and systems of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ change programmes, existing or future, and the ability to derive materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking expected benefits from such programmes: statements, including factors that are outside Diageos control.
changes in financial and equity markets, including significant interest rate These factors include, but are not limited to: and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the cost changes in political or economic conditions in countries and markets of capital, which may reduce or eliminate Diageos access to or increase in which Diageo operates, including changes in levels of consumer the cost of financing or which may affect Diageos financial results and spending, failure of customer, supplier and financial counterparties movements to the value of Diageos pension funds: or imposition of import, investment or currency restrictions: renewal of supply, distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements changes in consumer preferences and tastes, demographic trends or related rights and licences on favourable terms when they expire: or perceptions about health related issues, or contamination, technological developments that may affect the distribution of products counterfeiting or other circumstances which could harm the integrity or impede Diageos ability to protect its intellectual property rights.
or sales of Diageos brands: All oral and written forward-looking statements made on or after the developments in any litigation or other similar proceedings including date of this document and attributable to Diageo are expressly qualified with tax, customs and other regulatory authorities directed at the drinks in their entirety by the above factors and by the principal risks set out in and spirits industry generally or at Diageo in particular, or the impact the Strategic Report How we protect our business: Risk management of a product recall or product liability claim on Diageos profitability and principal risks.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on or reputation: behalf of Diageo speak only as of the date they are made.
Diageo does the effects of climate change and regulations and other measures to not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any address climate change including any resulting impact on the cost changes in Diageos expectations with regard thereto or any changes and supply of water: in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures changes in the cost or supply of raw materials, labour and or energy: that Diageo may make in any documents which it publishes and or legal and regulatory developments, including changes in regulations files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
All readers, regarding production, product liability, distribution, importation, labelling, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures.
packaging, consumption or advertising: changes in tax law, rates or This document includes names of Diageos products, which requirements including with respect to the impact of excise tax constitute trademarks or trade names which Diageo owns, or which increases or accounting standards: and changes in environmental laws, others own and license to Diageo for use.
health regulations and the laws governing labour and pensions: Diageo plc 2015. the costs associated with monitoring and maintaining compliance The information in this document does not constitute an offer to with anti-corruption and other laws and regulations, and the costs sell or an invitation to buy shares in Diageo plc or an invitation or associated with investigating alleged breaches of internal policies, laws inducement to engage in any other investment activities.
or regulations, whether initiated internally or by external regulators, This document includes information about Diageos target debt and any penalties or fines imposed as a result of any breaches: rating.
A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold ability to maintain Diageos brand image and corporate reputation, securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and exposure to adverse publicity, whether or not justified, and any by the assigning rating organisation.
Each rating should be evaluated resulting impacts on Diageos reputation and the likelihood that independently of any other rating.
consumers choose products offered by Diageos competitors: Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
This report has been printed on Vision Superior an FSC certified paper containing 100% ECF pulp and manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Printed by CPI Colour on behalf of RR Donnelley.
CPI Colour are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and are FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
All brands mentioned Lakeside Drive in this Annual Report Park Royal are trademarks and are London registered and or otherwise protected in accordance NW10 7HQ with applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
