142 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit ADDITIONAL INFORMATION requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the FOR SHAREHOLDERS provisions of the Companies Acts.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Voting rights Transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 20 to the Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of the company is consolidated financial statements.
by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general SHARE CAPITAL meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and Major shareholders present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the At 17 July 2015, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general to the company.
meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder Percentage has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have of issued ordinary share appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, capital unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more Number of excluding Date of ordinary treasury notification shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more Shareholder shares shares of interest shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote BlackRock Investment against the resolution.
3 December Management UK Limited On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 2009 proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but Capital Research and a shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not Management Company cast all his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests A poll may be demanded by any of the following: in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have the chairman of the general meeting: different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the control of the company.
total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy The company is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307. resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the The following description summarises certain provisions of aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at up on all the shares conferring that right.
the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for case as at 17 July 2015.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: Investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association by ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, contacting the Company Secretary at the.
re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final Any amendment to the articles of association of the company dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies auditor, the remuneration report and remuneration policy, the Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and Directors special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs holders of such class.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by Diageos Board.
At each annual An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at reconsidered for election re-election, assuming they wish to stand which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions for election re-election: any director who has been appointed by require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the Diageos Board since the last annual general meeting: any director votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is who has been in office during the two previous general meetings a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been in of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of proxy and entitled to vote.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 143 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS SHARE FRAUD A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served Please beware of the share fraud of boiler room scams, where with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
section of the companys website www.
com but in short, Pre-emption rights and new issues of shares if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under investment decision.
Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to EXTERNAL LIMITED ASSURANCE OF SELECTED shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE DATA restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake an independent limited assurance engagement, reporting to Diageo plc only, over selected with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Sustainability & Responsibility S&R performance data marked articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general with the symbol within the Strategic Report and Performance meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five Addendum sections of this report.
KPMG LLP used the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3410: Assurance years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements to assure the selected without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such Greenhouse Gas performance data and ISAE 3000: Assurance shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information to assure the other selected performance data, which to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
includes data for water use, wastewater discharge BOD under direct control, waste to landfill and the lost time accident frequency rate, Repurchase of shares all marked with the symbol.
KPMG LLP have issued an unqualified opinion over the selected Subject to authorisation by special resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares S&R performance data and their full assurance opinion is available which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, in the Responsibility section of our website at www.
if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance share capital.
In order to reach their opinion, KPMG LLP performed a range of procedures which included interviews with management, Restrictions on transfers of shares examination of reporting systems and documentation, as well as The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo selected data testing at various sites as well as at Head Office.
share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified A summary of the work they performed is included in their or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, greenhouse gas from stamp duty, and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if than financial information.
It is important to read the selected S&R to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
performance data contained within this report in the context of KPMG LLPs full limited assurance opinion and our reporting Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as methodologies.
Our reporting methodologies are included in the defined in Diageos articles of association and where, in the case of S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual Report, available a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the at www.
uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in Diageos articles of association.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or on the SECs website www.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
