Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES This section describes the basis of preparation of the ACCOUNTING consolidated financial statements and the groups accounting INFORMATION policies that are applicable to the financial statements as AND POLICIES a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES a Basis of preparation d Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the for use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International primary economic environment in which each entity operates Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant parent company.
The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities accounting policy.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings b Going concern The group has considerable financial resources available.
and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to At 30 June 2015 the group has cash and cash equivalents of the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on 472 million and undrawn bank facilities of 2,229 million, with such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income borrowings and bank overdrafts due within one year of 1,921 million.
The group owns a diverse portfolio of beverage alcohol assets.
statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange With a globally diverse customer and supplier base the directors differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in believe that the group is well positioned to manage its business foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the of financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2015, foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2015 2014 2013 US dollar c Consolidation i Income statement and cash flows 1.57 1.63 1.57 The consolidated financial statements include the results of the ii Assets and liabilities 1.57 1.71 1.52 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is Euro an entity controlled by Diageo plc.
Control is the power to direct i Income statement and cash flows 1.31 1.20 1.21 the relevant activities of the subsidiary that significantly affect the ii Assets and liabilities 1.41 1.25 1.17 subsidiarys return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control i Weighted average rates ii Year end rates over an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is consolidated on the basis of the The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
For further information see note 15.
94 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES The following standards issued by the IASB not yet endorsed by the e Critical accounting estimates and judgements The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of EU have not yet been adopted by the group: greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgements, are set out in detail in the relevant notes: IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective in the year ending 30 June 2019 is ultimately intended to replace IAS 39 and covers Exceptional items page 100 the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial Taxation page 103 instruments together with a new hedge accounting model and Business combinations page 106 new impairment methodology.
Brands, goodwill and other intangibles page 109 Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that the adoption of IFRS 9 will have no significant impact on its consolidated Post employment benefits page 113 results or financial position.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings page 129 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective in the In the year ended 30 June 2015 a significant judgement was made year ending 30 June 2019 is based on the principle that revenue in respect of the exchange rate used to translate the groups is recognised when control of goods or services is transferred to the Venezuelan operations.
In February 2015, the Central Bank of Venezuela opened a new customer and provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts.
It replaces the separate models for mechanism known as SIMADI that allows private and public goods, services and construction contracts under current IFRS.
companies to trade foreign currency with fewer restrictions than Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that the other mechanisms in Venezuela.
As a result, the group has used the SIMADI exchange rate to consolidate its Venezuelan operations for adoption of IFRS 15 will have no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
For the year ended 30 June 2014, the group applied the Sicad II exchange rate to consolidate its operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants in Venezuela.
Applying the SIMADI consolidation rate of $1 VEF197.30 effective in the year ending 30 June 2017 changes the accounting requirements for biological assets that meet the definition of bearer 1 VEF309.76 compared to the Sicad II rate of $1 VEF49.98 plants.
These will be within the scope of IAS 16 and will be subject 1 VEF85.47 would have reduced net assets and cash and to all of the requirements therein.
This includes the ability to choose cash equivalents as at 1 July 2014 by 60 million and 52 million, respectively, and would have reduced the previously reported between the cost model and revaluation model.
The group is currently considering the impact of the amendments net sales and operating profit for the year ended 30 June 2014 on its consolidated results and financial position.
by 57 million and 36 million, respectively.
f New accounting policies There are a number of amendments to IFRS, effective for the year ending 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017, which are not expected The following amendments to the accounting standards, issued to significantly impact the groups consolidated results or by the IASB or International Financial Reporting Interpretations financial position.
Committee IFRIC and endorsed by the EU, have been adopted by the group from 1 July 2014 with no significant impact on the groups consolidated results, financial position or disclosures: IFRIC 21 Levies Amendment to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Amendment to IAS 39 Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payments Definition of vesting conditions Amendment to IFRS 3 Accounting for contingent consideration in a business combination Amendment to IFRS 3 Scope exceptions for joint ventures Amendment to IFRS 8 Aggregation of operating segments and reconciliation of segment assets to entitys assets Amendment to IFRS 13 Short term receivables and payables
