90 Group Accounting Policies For the year ended 30 September 2015 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Theaccounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in 2015 and the comparative year.
There were no new Standards, amendments or interpretations to existing Standards which have been published and endorsed by the EU and which have a significant impact on the results, financial position or presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2015.
1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, asdiscussed on pages 66 to 67.
1.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company itssubsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
1.3 Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Goodwill at the acquisition date represents the cost of the business combination excluding acquisition related costs, which are expensed as incurred plus the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Minority interests may be initially measured at fair value or, alternatively, at the minority interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made for each business combination separately.
1.4 Divestments The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
1.5 Revenue recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services supplied to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added taxes: revenue receivable for services supplied to customers, as opposed to goods, is less than 3% of Group revenue.
Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership transfers to the customer, which depending on individual customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised on a pro rata basis over the period of the contract.
1.6 Employee benefits The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
The defined benefit scheme is closed to the accrual of further benefits.
a Defined contribution pension plans: Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they fall due.
b Defined benefit pension plan: The deficit recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plan is recognised as follows: i Within the Consolidated Income Statement: Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised in operating profit: Interest cost on the net deficit in the scheme calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability at the start of the annual reporting period.
ii Within the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the scheme arising from actual experience and any changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91 1.6 Employee benefits continued The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit scheme in the period in whichthey occur, outside the Consolidated Income Statement, but in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income.
c Share-based payments The Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby the Directors render services in exchange for shares in the Company, or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market based measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR targets upon which vesting of part of the award is conditional, and is expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that shares will vest.
For the market based measure, the Directors have used a predicted future value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the granting of shares to Executives.
The cost of shares in the Company purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
1.7 Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency: Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement: ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair value was determined.
Where a gain or loss on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
b Translation from functional currency to presentational currency: When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income: these cumulative exchange differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
c Net investment in foreign operations: Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the net investment.
1.8 Taxation The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and for short term timing differences where a provision held against receivables or inventory is not deductible for taxation purposes.
However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit, nor the accounting profit.
92 Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2015 1.8 Taxation continued Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group controls the dividend policies of itssubsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or charge is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
1.9 Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less residual value of the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows: Freehold property between 20 and 50 years Leasehold property term of the lease Plant and equipment plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years IT hardware between 3 and 5 years fixtures and fittings between 5 and 15 years Hospital field equipment five years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year end.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
1.10 Intangible assets All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any provision for impairment.
a Research and development costs Research expenditure is written off as incurred.
Development costs are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS38 Intangible Assets are met: at which point further costs are capitalised as intangible assets up until the intangible asset is readily available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Costs are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, plant andequipment.
b Computer software costs Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible assets.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life of between three and seven years.
c Acquired intangible assets business combinations Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer lists, supplier lists, databases, technology and software and patents and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are separately recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected useful economic lives.
Fair values on larger acquisitions are assessed as follows: customer and supplier relationships are valued using a discounted cash flow model: databases are valued using a replacement cost model.
For smaller acquisitions, intangible assets are assessed using historical experience of similar transactions.
d Goodwill business combinations Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over the aggregate fair value of the identifiable intangible, tangible and current assets and net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities including contingent liabilities of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisitions is not amortised.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93 1.11 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use: its value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
a Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit: cash-generating units for this purpose are the Groups three Sectors which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by the Groups Board of Directors for internal and management purposes.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
b Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
1.12 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost generally calculated on a weighted average cost basis and net realisable value, after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory.
Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
1.13 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such impairment charges are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
b Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
c Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and can form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
d Put options held by minority interests The purchase price of shares to be acquired under options held by minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries are calculated by reference to the estimated profitability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula.
The net present value of the estimated future payments under these put options is shown as a financial liability.
The corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a deduction against retained earnings.
At the end of each year, the estimate of the financial liability is reassessed and any change in value is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, as part of finance income or expense.
Where the liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the effects of its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange arising from operational and financial activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their market price at the balance sheet date.
94 Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2015 1.13 Financial instruments continued Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
At the inception of thetransaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The Group uses cash flow hedges e. g. forward foreign exchange currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction.
In relation to cash flow hedges, to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain orloss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is kept in equity until the hedged transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement for the year.
The Group does not use financial instruments to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect the Consolidated Income Statement fair value hedges.
No financial instruments are used to hedge net investments in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
1.14 Investments available for sale financial assets The investment held by the Group comprises equity shares which are not held for the purposes of equity trading and in accordance with IAS39 is classified as available for sale.
They are initially recognisedat fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income.
1.15 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
1.16 Other liabilities Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Other liabilities are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
1.17 Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the AGM: interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
1.18 Share capital and reserves Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group also maintains the following reserves: a Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign businesses.
b Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge.
c Retained earnings reserve The retained earnings reserve comprises total cumulative recognised income and expense attributable to shareholders.
Bonus issues of share capital and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this reserve.
In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the Company and the liability to provide those shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy share awards granted to Directors under the Groups share schemes.
The trustee purchases the Companys shares on the open market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary ofthe Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95 1.19 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective The IASB has published a number of new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards which are not yet effective, but will be mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2015.
Set out below are those which are considered most relevant to the Group: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
IFRS 15 is effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2019.
The Group is assessing the potential impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The following new or amended Standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 11 12 Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle 1.20 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1.1 to 1.19 above, management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require the most difficult and subjective judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable.
However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below: 1.20.1 Goodwill impairment The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash flows over a five year period and using a perpetuity to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of value in use.
Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on managements expectations of future volumes and margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Future cash flows are discounted using discount rates based on a market derived weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate for circumstances specific to the asset being tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates and equity returns and is reviewed on an annual basis.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
1.20.2 Taxation The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world.
Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years.
Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and assets are based on managements best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent timing differences that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their nature, the amounts recorded are therefore dependent on managements judgement about future events.
Account has also been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these deferred tax assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
1.20.3 Inventory and trade receivable provisions In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Impairment charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful receivables.
The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the facts available at the time the consolidated financial statements are approved and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
1.20.4 Future purchases of minority interests The Groups financial statements include a financial liability for the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in future years to acquire the outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries.
This amount is based on the Directors estimate of the future profitability of the relevant subsidiary and the assumption that year end exchange rates will remain consistent until the exercise of the option.
Any changes to the estimated profitability of the relevant business and or changes to the assumption of the relevant exchange rate, will change the estimate of this financial liability.
