Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION d Pension plans The Diageo pension plans are recharged with the cost of administration services provided by the group to the pension plans and with professional fees paid by the group on behalf of the pension plans.
The total amount recharged for the year was 13 million 2014 17 million: 2013 11 million.
e Directors remuneration 2015 2014 2013 million million million Salaries and benefits 2 3 3 Annual incentive plan 1 3 Non-executive directors fees 1 1 1 i Share option exercises 4 13 i Shares vesting 5 7 10 ii Post employment benefits 1 1 1 10 16 31 i G ains on options realised in the year and the benefit from share awards, calculated by using the share price applicable on the date of exercise of the share options and release of the awards.
ii Includes the value of the cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
Details of the individual Directors remuneration are given in the Directors remuneration report.
PRINCIPAL GROUP COMPANIES The companies listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the group.
The operating companies listed below may carry on the business described in the countries listed in conjunction with their subsidiaries and other group companies.
Percentage Country of Country of of equity i incorporation operation owned Business description Subsidiaries Diageo Ireland Republic of Ireland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Great Britain Limited England Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Scotland Limited Scotland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Brands B. V. Netherlands Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo North America, Inc. United States Worldwide 100% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks ii United Spirits Limited India India 54.78% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks iii Diageo Capital plc Scotland United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group iii Diageo Finance plc England United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Investment Corporation United States United States 100% Financing company for the US group Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. Turkey Turkey 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Associates iv Mot Hennessy, SNC France France 34% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks i All percentages, unless otherwise stated, are in respect of holdings of ordinary share capital and are equivalent to the percentages of voting rights held by the group.
ii Excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
iii Directly owned by Diageo plc.
