Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION This section includes additional financial information that OTHER FINANCIAL are either required by the relevant accounting standards INFORMATION or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS the filing of a memo by Dr Mallya with the tribunal that he had no objection to it issuing the order in respect of the UBL shares.
Diageo Accounting policies believes that the existence of any prior rights or dispute in relation to Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or the UBL shares would be in breach of representations and warranties other disputes against the group where it is considered to be given to Standard Chartered at the time the security was granted and probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made further believes that Dr Mallyas filing of the memo with the tribunal of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may and his failure to object to the order for status quo are breaches of his be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the obligations to Standard Chartered.
estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no Under the terms of the guarantee, there are arrangements to pass provision created.
on to DHN the benefit of the security package if it makes a payment under the guarantee of all amounts owed to Standard Chartered.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements However, DHNs ability to assume or enforce security over elements A judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a claim of the security package is subject to regulatory consent.
It is not at will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible this stage possible to determine whether such consent would be range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in this forthcoming.
evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the liability In addition, DHN has the benefit of counter-indemnities from originally estimated.
Watson and Dr Mallya in respect of its liabilities under the guarantee.
In the event that DHN makes any payment under the guarantee, a Guarantees and related matters DHN would intend to pursue claims under these indemnities to seek As of 30 June 2015, the group has no material guarantees or to recover any outstanding amounts.
indemnities in respect of liabilities of third parties with the exception In light of the litigation risk associated with the UBL shares and of the following: the potential loss of realisable value of the F1 security during Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN has issued a conditional enforcement, Diageo believes the outstanding amounts may not be backstop guarantee to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered fully recoverable through the security enforcement process and or pursuant to a guarantee commitment agreement the guarantee otherwise paid under the counter-indemnities.
The guarantee is in respect of the liabilities of Watson unable to meaningfully quantify the potential outcome from the Limited Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Vijay Mallya, under recovery of the security package and or the counter-indemnities and a $135 million 81 million facility from Standard Chartered.
The therefore any possible loss.
guarantee agreement was entered into as part of the arrangements Dr Mallya has indicated, both in response to DHN notifying its put in place and announced at closing of the USL transaction on intention to bring counter-indemnity claims in respect of any liability 4 July 2013.
DHNs provision of the guarantee agreement enabled incurred under DHNs guarantee of the Watson facility and as a standthe refinancing of certain existing borrowings of Watson to a third alone matter, that he believes he has certain claims against Diageo party bank and facilitated the release by that bank of rights over arising out of the failure to conclude a joint venture with him in certain USL shares that were to be acquired by Diageo as part of respect of certain emerging markets in Africa and Asia excluding the USL transaction.
The facility matured and entered into default India and to provide significant financial benefits to him.
The possibility of an emerging markets joint venture was Standard Chartered is required to take certain pre-agreed steps previously disclosed by Diageo in the announcement of its initial to recover from Watson prior to calling on the DHN guarantee.
The USL transaction on 9 November 2012, alongside the details of a underlying security package held by Standard Chartered includes non-binding memorandum of understanding for the establishment shares in United Breweries Limited UBL and Watsons interest in of a joint venture to own United National Breweries traditional the joint venture that owns the Force India Formula One F1 team.
sorghum beer business in South Africa UNB joint venture.
That In June 2015, a consortium of banks led by State Bank of India SBI announcement noted that it was not certain whether the emerging obtained an order from the Debt Recovery Tribunal DRT in markets joint venture would be established or, if so, on what basis.
Bangalore preventing the sale or any other transfer of such UBL Subsequently, at the time of completion of its initial USL transaction shares as part of the enforcement process pending further orders on 4 July 2013, Diageo announced that, once Diageo and Dr Mallyas from the DRT.
DHN intends to vigorously pursue all options to appeal near-term priority of the integration of USL into the Diageo group or lift the DRT order in order to allow for the sale of shares and was successfully underway, Diageo and Dr Mallya would explore the recovery of outstanding amounts.
This order was passed following opportunity of extending their relationship into other emerging
