Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: RESULTS FOR THE YEAR This section explains the results and performance of the RESULTS FOR group for the three years ended 30 June 2015.
Disclosures THE YEAR are provided for segmental information, operating costs, exceptional items, finance income and charges, the groups share of results of associates and joint ventures, taxation and discontinued operations.
For associates, joint ventures and taxation, balance sheet disclosures are also provided in this section.
companies, are operated by the International Supply Centre ISC.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The results of the ISC segment are allocated to the geographical Accounting policies segments for the purpose of explaining the groups performance.
Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties and rents The management reporting, at budget exchange rate, for the year receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and ended 30 June 2013 was not restated as the integration of the other duties which the group pays as principal but excludes non-ISC supply operations into the demand markets did not alter the amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added externally reported net sales and operating profit before exceptional tax.
Sales are recognised depending upon individual customer items of the geographical segments.
The other segmental terms at the time of despatch, delivery or when the risk of loss information in note 2 b in respect of capital expenditures and transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales depreciation, intangible asset amortisation and impairment for the are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty year ended 30 June 2013 has been restated for the change in the and certain promotional activities and similar items.
Net sales are sales less excise duties.
Diageo incurs excise Continuing operations also include the Corporate function.
In some countries excise duties are Corporate revenues and costs are in respect of central costs, based on sales and are separately identified on the face of the including finance, corporate relations, human resources and legal, as invoice to the external customer.
In others it is effectively well as certain information systems, facilities and employee costs that a production tax which is incurred when the spirit is removed are not allocable to the geographical segments or to the ISC.
In these countries excise duties are also include rents receivable and payable in respect of properties part of the cost of goods sold and are not separately identified not used by the group in the manufacture, sale or distribution of on the sales invoice.
premium drinks and the results of Gleneagles Hotel disposed Advertising costs, point of sale materials and sponsorship on 30 June 2015. payments are charged to marketing in operating profit when the Diageo uses shared services operations, including captive and company has a right of access to the goods or services acquired.
outsourced centres, to deliver transaction processing activities for markets and operational entities.
These centres are located in Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium Hungary, Romania, Kenya, Colombia, the Philippines and India.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in associates and The captive business service centre in Budapest also performs certain joint ventures as set out in note 6. central finance activities, including elements of financial planning and The segmental information presented is consistent with reporting and treasury.
The results of shared service operations are management reporting provided to the executive committee the recharged to the regions.
The segmental information for net sales and operating profit The executive committee considers the business principally from before exceptional items is reported at budgeted exchange rates a geographical perspective based on the location of third party sales in line with management reporting.
For management reporting and the business analysis is presented by geographical segment.
purposes the group measures the current year at, and restates the In the year ended 30 June 2015 Diageo changed its internal prior year net sales and operating profit to, the current years reporting structure to reflect changes made to management budgeted exchange rates.
These exchange rates are set prior to the responsibilities.
As a result of this change, Diageo reports the financial year as part of the financial planning process and provide following geographical segments both for management reporting a consistent exchange rate to measure the performance of the purposes and in the external financial statements: North America: business throughout the year.
The adjustments required to retranslate Europe: Africa: Latin America and Caribbean: Asia Pacific and the segmental information to actual exchange rates and to reconcile Corporate.
The geographical segments Western Europe and Africa, it to the groups reported results are shown in the tables below.
Eastern Europe and Turkey are no longer reported.
Consequently, the The comparative segmental information, prior to retranslation, has segmental information in parts a and b below for the two years not been restated at the current years budgeted exchange rates but ended 30 June 2014 and 2013 has been restated to present the is presented at the budgeted rates for the respective years.
In addition, for management reporting purposes Diageo presents From 1 July 2013, the majority of the groups supply operations separately the results of acquisitions and disposals completed in the formerly the Global Supply segment have been integrated into current and prior year from the results of the geographical segments.
demand markets while the supply operations in the United Kingdom, The impact of acquisitions and disposals on net sales and operating Ireland and Italy, which manufacture products for other group profit is disclosed under the appropriate geographical segments in the following tables at budgeted exchange rates.
