152 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Shareholder information Key dates for 2016 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2016 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 20 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 21 April Record Date for entitlement to the final dividend 22 April Payment of final dividend 13 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 26 July Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Companys website as and when they become available.
Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are available under Regulatory news within the Investor section on the Companys website.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.
During Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2015, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2014 14 December 2015 2 January 2015 31 December 2015 460.6 pence 209.9 pence 454.5 pence 244.4 pence Share price 2015 pence 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 Note: The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
2 January 2015 20 January 2015 5 February 2015 23 February 2015 11 March 2015 27 March 2015 16 April 2015 5 May 2015 21 May 2015 9 June 2015 25 June 2015 13 July 2015 29 July 2015 14 August 2015 2 September 2015 18 September 2015 6 October 2015 22 October 2015 9 November 2015 25 November 2015 11 December 2015 31 December 2015 Drax Group plc 153 Annual report and accounts 2015 Registering for electronic communications does not mean that Market capitalisation you can no longer receive paper copies of documents.
We are able The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet and the closing price at 31 December 2015, was approximately your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be Financial reports found on the Drax website at www.
com investor Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date shareholder info shareholderfaq.
of publication and can be downloaded from our website.
Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Tax on dividends Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on Contact Us on In the 2015 Budget, the Chancellor announced changes in the ourwebsite, or direct by e-mail to enquiries@drax.
waythat dividends would be taxed in the future.
Below is a brief summary of the guidance provided by HMRC.
If you are in any Drax shareholder queries doubtas to the impact on your personal circumstances, you are Draxs share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti, recommended to seek your own financial advice from a professional who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets dividend payments.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query From April 2016, there will be an income tax charge on dividends relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding: atthe rate of 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate transfer of shares: taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
change of name or address: lost share certificates: The long-standing system of tax credits attached to dividends lost or out-of-date dividend cheques: willbe replaced with a new tax-free Dividend Allowance.
This payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society willmean that there will be no tax to pay on the first 5,000 account: and ofdividend income, no matter what non-dividend income a death of a registered shareholder.
Dividends paid on shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining tax-free.
Equiniti can be contacted as follows: Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK.
Lines are Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding income between 5,001 and 10,000 will need to make a Bank Holidays : or 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
declaration to HMRC for the first time.
Individuals with dividend Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer income of more than 10,000 are already required to be in HMRCs Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The impact on Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash dividends on their plan shares align with When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable those for Shareholders.
Further information and updates on tax on to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group dividends can be found on the HMRC website at www.
uk plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
Online communications As the Dividend Tax Credit will no longer be required it is Registering for online communications allows you to have expectedthat a dividend confirmation will still need to be sent morecontrol over the administration of your shareholding.
toshareholders to replace the old tax voucher.
The Company is Theregistration process is easy via Equinitis secure website currently considering whether to move to the practice of issuing www.
just one dividend confirmation document towards the end of the tax year, irrespective of the number of cash payments made during Once registered with Shareview you are able to: the course of the year, rather than issuing a document each time elect how Drax communicates with you: adividend is paid.
Shareholders will be advised of the outcome amend some of your personal details: indue course.
amend the way you receive dividends: and buy or sell shares online.
154 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Shareholder information continued How to avoid share fraud Beneficial owners and information rights Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to If your shares are registered in the name of a third party i. e. an ISA contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
provider or other nominee company you may, if you wish, receive Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006. and firm contacting you and then end the call.
In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk registered holder, who will then nominate you.
All communications tosee if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third the FCA.
party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, and not to Drax or Equiniti.
copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want ShareGift to call it back.
1052686 is an independent Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
todispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
likely cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital uk scams.
gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised tocharity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief.
firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Furtherinformation can be obtained directly from the charity Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Share frauds Boiler room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
theirshareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently Report a scam inflated prices.
It is often the case that the caller, or message in the If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you who is looking to take over the Company.
At the time of this report, can find out more about investment scams.
the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those outlined are usually You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. made by unauthorised companies and individuals.
Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company.
Below is contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. the advice from the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA.
Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
29 Shareholders by percentage ownership Shareholders by number As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2015 Private shareholders 0.78% Private shareholders 1,445 Institutional and Institutional and corporate holders 99.22% corporate holders 1,104 156 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Shareholder information continued Company information, professional advisers and service providers Drax Group plc Registered office and trading address Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone 44 0 1757 618381 Fax 44 0 1757 612192 www.
com Registration details Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 5562053 Company Secretary Philip Hudson Enquiry e-mail address enquiries@drax.
com Professional advisers and service providers Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP Brokers Deutsche Bank AG Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB Financial PR Brunswick Group LLP 16 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Remuneration advisers  LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH Solicitors Slaughter and May LLP One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY Glossary Advantaged fuels Feed-in tariff Planned outage Fuel that gives a price advantage against A long-term contract set at a fixed level where A period during which scheduled maintenance standard bituminous coals.
Such fuels include variable payments are made to ensure the is executed according to the plan set at the pond fines, off-specification coal and petcoke.
generator receives an agreed tariff.
The feed-in outset of the year.
tariff payment would be made in addition to the Ancillary services generators revenues from selling in the market.
Planned outage rate Services provided to national grid used for The capacity not available due to planned balancing supply and demand or maintaining Forced outage outages expressed as a percentage of the secure electricity supplies within acceptable Any reduction in plant availability, excluding maximum theoretical capacity.
They are described in Connection planned outages.
Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Power exchange trades Forced outage rate Power sales or purchases transacted on the Availability The capacity which is not available due to APX UK power trading platform.
Average percentage of time the units were forced outages or restrictions expressed as available for generation.
apercentage of the maximum theoretical ROCs capacity, less planned outage capacity.
A Renewables Obligation Certificate ROC is a Average achieved price certificate issued to an accredited generator for Power revenues divided by volume of net Grid charges electricity generated from eligible renewable sales includes imbalance charges.
Includes transmission network use of system sources.
The RO is currently the main support charges TNUoS, balancing services use of scheme for renewable electricity projects in Balancing mechanism system charges BSUoS and distribution theUK.
The sub-set of the market through which useof system charges DUoS.
thesystem operator can call upon additional Summer generation consumption or reduce generation IFRSs The calendar months April to September.
consumption through market participants bids International Financial Reporting Standards.
and offers, in order to balance the system LECs minute-by-minute.
System operator Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence ofCCL National Grid Electricity Transmission.
Bark spread exempt electricity supplies generated from Responsible for the coordination of electricity The difference between the power price and qualifying renewablesources.
flows onto and over the transmission system, the cost of biomass, net of renewable support.
balancing generation supply and user demand.
Levy control framework Carbon price support mechanism A control framework for DECC levy-funded Total recordable injury rate TRIR or carbon price floor or carbon tax spending intended to make sure that DECC The frequency rate is calculated on the achieves its fuel poverty, energy and climate A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used to following basis: lost time injuries worse than generate electricity.
It is charged as a levy on change goals in a way that is consistent with first aid injuries hours worked x 100,000. economic recovery and minimising the impact coal delivered to the power station.
UK NAP Contracts for difference CfD UK National Allocation Plan.
A mechanism to support investment in Load factor Net sent out generation as a percentage low-carbon electricity generation.
The CfD Underlying financial measures works by stabilising revenues for generators ofmaximum sales.
We report financial measures described as at a fixed price level known as the strike underlying such as profit after tax and Lost time injury rate LTIR price.
Generators will receive revenue from earnings per share.
Underlying measures are The frequency rate is calculated on the selling their electricity into the market as adjusted to exclude the impact of gains and following basis: lost time injuries hours usual.
However, when the market reference losses on derivative contracts and the worked x 100,000.
Lost time injuries are price is below the strike price they will also associated tax.
defined as occurrences where the injured receive a top-up payment from suppliers for party is absent from work for more than the additional amount.
reference price is above the strike price, the The calendar months October to March.
generator must pay back the difference.
Net balancing mechanism Net volumes attributable to accepted bids Dark green spread and offers in the balancing mechanism.
The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and carbon.
Net cash debt Comprises cash and cash equivalents, EBITDA short-term investments less overdrafts and Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
amortisation, gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and unrealised Net sales gains losses on derivative contracts and The aggregate of net volumes attributable to CESP settlement.
bilateral contracts, power exchange trades and net balancing mechanism.
EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading System is a This document is printed on Cocoon 100 Net sales at notional balancing point NBP mechanism introduced across the EU to Offset, a paper containing 100% post consumer Net sales at NBP is the volume of power sold to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme is 2 recycled fibre, which is either Process Chlorine customers by our Retail business expressed at capable of being extended to cover all Free PCF or Totally Chlorine Free TCF.
The NBP reflects the volume of power greenhouse gas emissions.
sold before deduction of transmission and distribution losses incurred in transporting this power from the grid to the customer meter.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
