104 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements Basis of consolidation Introduction These consolidated financial statements incorporate the The consolidated financial statements provide detailed information financial results of the Company and of all entities controlled by about the financial performance Consolidated income statement, the Company, its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each financial position Consolidated balance sheet, and cash flows year.
The Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries.
Consolidated cash flow statement of DraxGroup plc the Company together with all of the entities controlled by The impact of all intra-Group transactions is eliminated theCompany collectively, the Group.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated inthe consolidated income statement from the date the Group balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement.
include explanations of the information presented.
In general, the additional information in the notes to the financial statements is required by law, IFRS or other regulations to facilitate increased Accounting policies understanding of the primary statements set out on pages 107 to 111.
Those accounting policies that are material to our financial statements are described in note 8.3 tothe financial statements Where relevant, we have set out key elements of our business model or, where specific to an individual component of the financial see pages 16 to 19 and how this has affected our financialresults.
statements, in the relevant note see contents on page 106.
This year we have changed the way our financial statements We have not changed any of our accounting policies in the period.
andthe associated notes are presented.
The notes are grouped byfunction together, with related information, including A full listing of new standards, interpretations and accounting policies, areas involving significant judgement pronouncements under IFRS applicable to these financial andrelated explanations.
statements is presented in note 8.2.
The application of these newrequirements has not had a material effect on the financialstatements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance withIFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the Judgements, estimates and uncertainties consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the The preparation of financial statements requires management to EUIAS Regulation.
exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that have Actual results may differ from these estimates.
been measured at fair value.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Going concern ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which The Groups business activities, along with future developments theestimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
that may affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, are set out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 55 The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity ofthis document.
are set out below and in more detail in the related notes.
In the viability statement on page 50 the Directors state that Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions theyhave a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to The judgements that carry the most significant risk of an outcome continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over that differs from the amount recognised in the financial the next three years.
statements are as follows: Consequently, the Directors also have a reasonable expectation Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment that the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months isdepreciated on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future these financial statements.
replacement cycles and other available evidence, however, adegree of judgement is required.
More information: note 3.1 on page 120 Financials Drax Group plc 105 Annual report and accounts 2015 Impairment an impairment review is conducted annually Revenue recognition the nature of some of the Groups activities, forgoodwill and for other assets where an indicator of possible particularly within the Retail segment, result in revenue being impairment exists.
The assessment of future cash flows that based on the estimated volumes of power supplied to customers underpins such a review is based up managements best estimate at an estimated average price per unit.
Assumptions that underpin offuture prices, volumes and economic conditions.
The calculations these estimates are applied consistently and comparison of past are particularly sensitive to judgement given the long time period estimates to final settlements suggests a high degree of accuracy.
However, given the level of judgement involved, actual outcomes More information: note 2.3 on page 114 may vary from initial estimates.
More information: note 8.3 on page 144 Derivatives derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The assessment of fair value Non-statutory measures of financial performance depends upon assuming a market price for the instrument in We present two non-statutory measures on the face of our income question.
The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon statement.
Our non-statutory measures exclude certain items, forward curves that are largely derived from readily attainable including any transactions considered to be one-off in nature, quotations and third party sources.
However, any forward curve is toprovide a measure of the underlying trading and operational based at least in part upon assumptions around future transactions performance of the Group.
Where such instruments extend beyond the liquid portion of the forward curve, the level of judgement EBITDA is the primary measure we use to assess our financial increases as the number of observable transactions decreases.
EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, More information: note 7.2 on page 138 depreciation including asset obsolescence charges and gains or losses on asset disposals, amortisation and unrealised gains on Inventories fuel inventories are valued at weighted average derivative contracts.
In 2014, it also excluded the one-off costbased on purchase price, or net realisable value where lower.
settlement of CESP see note 2.2 for further details.
Valuation is largely based on observable data such as invoiced costs and automated weigher readings.
However, given the bulk Underlying measures, including underlying profit before and after nature of fuels an element of judgement is required to assess the tax and underlying earnings per share EPS exclude the impact of volume of stock held at the balance sheet date.
unrealised gains on derivative contracts, asset obsolescence More information: note 3.3 on page 123 charges and the one-off settlement of CESP in 2014.
Underlying profit after tax and EPS exclude the post-tax effect of these items.
ROCs the carrying amount of ROCs in the Groups balance sheet are stated at their expected realisable value.
This assessment is Under our current distribution policy, dividends are calculated based on an estimated future sales price.
based upon 50% of underlying profit after tax.
A reconciliation More information: note 3.2 on page 122 from profit for the year attributable to equity holders to underlying profit after tax is provided in note 2.6.
Other accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Pensions the Group records a liability in its balance sheet for its obligation to provide benefits under an approved defined benefit pension scheme less the fair value of assets held by the pension scheme.
The actuarial valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities is performed annually and depends on assumptions regarding interest rates, inflation, future salary and pension increases, mortality and other factors.
More information: note 6.3 on page 131 Taxation in accounting for tax liabilities the Group makes assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items of income andexpenditure for tax purposes.
These assumptions are based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, consultation with external advisors.
More information: note 2.5 on page 116 106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Contents Section Note Page Section 1: Consolidated income statement 107 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 108 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet 109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 110 Consolidated cash flow statement 111 Section 2: Financial Performance 2.1 Segmental reporting 112 2.2 Operating expenses and EBITDA 113 2.3 Impairment review and asset obsolescence charges 114 2.4 Net finance costs 116 2.5 Current and deferred taxation 116 2.6 Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share 118 2.7 Dividends 119 2.8 Retained profits 119 Section 3: Operating Assets and Working Capital 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 120 3.2 ROC and LEC assets 122 3.3 Inventories 123 3.4 Trade and other receivables 123 3.5 Trade and other payables 124 Section 4: Financing and Capital Structure 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt 125 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 125 4.3 Short-term investments 125 4.4 Borrowings 125 4.5 Cash generated from operations 126 4.6 Equity and reserves 127 Section 5: Other Assets and Liabilities 5.1 Acquisitions 128 5.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets 128 5.3 Provisions 129 Section 6: Our People 6.1 Employees and directors 130 6.2 Share-based payments 130 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 131 Section 7: Risk Management 7.1 Risk management disclosures 136 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 138 7.3 Other financial instruments 141 7.4 Hedge reserve 141 7.5 Contingent liabilities 142 7.6 Commitments 142 Section 8: Reference Information 8.1 General information 143 8.2 Basis of preparation 143 8.3 Accounting policies 144 8.4 Related party transactions 145 Drax Group plc Company Financial Statements 146 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 148
