84 Financial Statements 84 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 30 April 2015 Before Exceptional After Before Exceptional After exceptional items exceptional exceptional items exceptional items note 4 items items note 4 items 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Continuing operations Note m m m m m m Revenue 2 3,820 3,820 4,035 4,035 Operating costs 3, 4 3,485 31 3,516 3,728 35 3,763 Operating profit before amortisation, acquisitions and disposals and SCA Packaging related costs 2 335 31 304 307 35 272 Amortisation of intangible assets 4, 10 46 9 55 51 51 and acquisitions and disposals SCA Packaging related exceptional costs 4 3 3 Operating profit 289 40 249 256 38 218 Finance income 5 3 3 3 3 Finance costs 4, 5 35 4 39 44 44 Employment benefit net finance expense 25 6 6 7 7 Net financing costs 38 4 42 48 48 Profit after financing costs 251 44 207 208 38 170 Share of profit loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 4, 12 7 7 3 3 Profit before income tax 251 51 200 208 41 167 Income tax expense credit 4, 7 54 10 44 45 22 23 Profit for the year from continuing operations 197 41 156 163 19 144 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 7 3 3 Profit for the year 197 41 156 160 19 141 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 197 41 156 159 19 140 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Earnings per share 1 Adjusted from continuing operations Basic 8 24.5p 21.4p Diluted 8 24.3p 21.1p From continuing operations Basic 8 16.6p 15.3p Diluted 8 16.4p 15.2p From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 16.6p 15.0p Diluted 16.4p 14.9p 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 85 84 Financial Statements Financial Statements 85 Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 30 April 2015 Year ended 30 April 2015 Before Exceptional After Before Exceptional After 2015 2014 exceptional items exceptional exceptional items exceptional Note m m items note 4 items items note 4 items 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Profit for the year 156 141 Continuing operations Note m m m m m m Items which will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Revenue 2 3,820 3,820 4,035 4,035 Actuarial losses gains on employee benefits 25 65 57 Operating costs 3, 4 3,485 31 3,516 3,728 35 3,763 Income tax on items which will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7 10 18 Operating profit before amortisation, Items which may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss acquisitions and disposals and Foreign currency translation differences 105 55 SCA Packaging related costs 2 335 31 304 307 35 272 Movements in cash flow hedges 5 16 Amortisation of intangible assets Income tax on items which may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7 22 4 4, 10 46 9 55 51 51 and acquisitions and disposals SCA Packaging related exceptional costs 4 3 3 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 177 36 Operating profit 289 40 249 256 38 218 21 105 Total comprehensive expense income for the year Finance income 5 3 3 3 3 Finance costs 4, 5 35 4 39 44 44 Total comprehensive expense income attributable to: Employment benefit net finance expense 25 6 6 7 7 Owners of the parent 21 104 Net financing costs 38 4 42 48 48 Non-controlling interests 1 Profit after financing costs 251 44 207 208 38 170 Share of profit loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 4, 12 7 7 3 3 Profit before income tax 251 51 200 208 41 167 Income tax expense credit 4, 7 54 10 44 45 22 23 Profit for the year from continuing operations 197 41 156 163 19 144 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 7 3 3 Profit for the year 197 41 156 160 19 141 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 197 41 156 159 19 140 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Earnings per share 1 Adjusted from continuing operations Basic 8 24.5p 21.4p Diluted 8 24.3p 21.1p From continuing operations Basic 8 16.6p 15.3p Diluted 8 16.4p 15.2p From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 16.6p 15.0p Diluted 16.4p 14.9p 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
com 86 Financial Statements 86 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position At 30 April 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 855 961 Property, plant and equipment 11 1,342 1,372 Equity accounted investments 12 17 24 Other investments 13 3 8 Deferred tax assets 22 58 84 Other receivables 15 5 3 Derivative financial instruments 21 24 4 Total non-current assets 2,304 2,456 Current assets Inventories 14 256 272 Other investments 13 1 1 Income tax receivable 38 11 Trade and other receivables 15 548 650 Cash and cash equivalents 19 95 98 Derivative financial instruments 21 13 2 Assets held for sale 17 46 45 Total current assets 997 1,079 Total assets 3,301 3,535 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 781 786 Employee benefits 25 200 151 Other payables 16 5 4 Provisions 23 7 23 Deferred tax liabilities 22 121 163 Derivative financial instruments 21 13 40 Total non-current liabilities 1,127 1,167 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 13 34 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 2 96 Trade and other payables 16 927 930 Income tax liabilities 147 90 Provisions 23 34 49 Derivative financial instruments 21 18 20 Liabilities held for sale 17 15 18 Total current liabilities 1,156 1,237 Total liabilities 2,283 2,404 Net assets 1,018 1,131 Equity Issued capital 24 94 94 Share premium 715 715 Reserves 210 323 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,019 1,132 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Total equity 1,018 1,131 Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc on 24 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by M W Roberts A R T Marsh Director Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 87 86 Financial Statements Financial Statements 87 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity At 30 April 2015 Year ended 30 April 2015 2015 2014 Total Note m m reserves attributable NonAssets Share Share Hedging Translation Own Retained to owners of controlling Total Non-current assets capital premium reserve reserve shares earnings the parent interests equity Intangible assets 10 855 961 Note m m m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 11 1,342 1,372 At 1 May 2013 93 710 17 65 2 238 1,087 2 1,085 Equity accounted investments 12 17 24 Profit for the year 140 140 1 141 Other investments 13 3 8 Actuarial gains on employee benefits 25 57 57 57 Deferred tax assets 22 58 84 Foreign currency translation differences 55 55 55 Other receivables 15 5 3 Cash flow hedges fair value changes 16 16 16 Derivative financial instruments 21 24 4 Income tax on other Total non-current assets 2,304 2,456 comprehensive income 7 2 6 18 22 22 Current assets Total comprehensive income expense 14 61 179 104 1 105 Inventories 14 256 272 Issue of share capital 1 5 6 6 Other investments 13 1 1 Employee share trust 2 2 Income tax receivable 38 11 Share-based payment expense net of tax 9 9 9 Trade and other receivables 15 548 650 Dividends paid 9 74 74 74 Cash and cash equivalents 19 95 98 Other changes in equity in the year 1 5 2 67 59 59 Derivative financial instruments 21 13 2 At 30 April 2014 94 715 31 4 350 1,132 1 1,131 Assets held for sale 17 46 45 Profit for the year 156 156 156 Total current assets 997 1,079 Actuarial losses on employee benefits 25 65 65 65 Total assets 3,301 3,535 Foreign currency translation differences 105 105 105 Liabilities Cash flow hedges fair value changes 5 5 5 Non-current liabilities Income tax on other Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 781 786 comprehensive income 7 1 21 10 12 12 Employee benefits 25 200 151 Total comprehensive expense income 4 126 101 21 21 Other payables 16 5 4 Share-based payment expense net of tax 2 2 2 Provisions 23 7 23 Dividends paid 9 94 94 94 Deferred tax liabilities 22 121 163 Other changes in equity in the year 92 92 92 Derivative financial instruments 21 13 40 At 30 April 2015 94 715 27 122 359 1,019 1 1,018 Total non-current liabilities 1,127 1,167 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 13 34 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 2 96 Trade and other payables 16 927 930 Income tax liabilities 147 90 Provisions 23 34 49 Derivative financial instruments 21 18 20 Liabilities held for sale 17 15 18 Total current liabilities 1,156 1,237 Total liabilities 2,283 2,404 Net assets 1,018 1,131 Equity Issued capital 24 94 94 Share premium 715 715 Reserves 210 323 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,019 1,132 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Total equity 1,018 1,131 Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc on 24 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by M W Roberts A R T Marsh Director Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 88 Financial Statements 88 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 30 April 2015 2015 2014 Continuing operations Note m m Operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 463 309 Interest received 3 3 Interest paid 37 46 Tax paid 28 55 Cash flows from operating activities 401 211 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 28 27 Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 18 12 Capital expenditure 167 174 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 18 18 Decrease in restricted cash 3 16 Loan to associate 2 Cash flows used in investing activities 158 155 Financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 6 Decrease in borrowings 352 Increase in borrowings 233 8 Repayment of finance lease obligations 2 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 94 74 Cash flows used in financing activities 213 62 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 30 6 Discontinued operations Cash used in discontinued operations 4 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 30 10 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 64 78 Reclassification to held for sale 6 Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents 6 4 Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 19 82 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 89 88 Financial Statements Financial Statements 89 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 30 April 2015 2015 2014 is an entity in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continuing operations Note m m rights to the net assets of the entity, rather than rights to its assets Operating activities a Basis of preparation and obligations for its liabilities.
Cash generated from operations 27 463 309 These financial statements are consolidated financial statements for the Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using Interest received 3 3 Group consisting of DS Smith Plc, a company registered in the UK, and all the equity method.
They are recognised initially at cost, which includes Interest paid 37 46 its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition the consolidated Tax paid 28 55 and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and Cash flows from operating activities 401 211 Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, and with those other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, until Investing activities parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 28 27 IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 18 12 IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
iii Non-controlling interests Capital expenditure 167 174 The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in the Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 18 18 statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Consolidated Statement of Financial Position net of the value of options Decrease in restricted cash 3 16 Practice UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 130 to 134. over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Groups subsidiaries.
Loan to associate 2 The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical iv Business Combinations Cash flows used in investing activities 158 155 cost basis with the exception of assets and liabilities of certain financial The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Financing activities instruments, employee benefit plans and share-based payments that Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a business Proceeds from issue of share capital 6 are stated at their fair value.
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Decrease in borrowings 352 Increase in borrowings 233 8 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired Repayment of finance lease obligations 2 concern basis as set out on page 56 of the Directors Governance Report.
is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the combination Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 94 74 The Directors consider that adequate resources exist for the Company occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final fair values are Cash flows used in financing activities 213 62 to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
determined within a year of the acquisition date and retrospectively applied.
Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 30 6 The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management Discontinued operations The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect whether and Cash used in discontinued operations 4 non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets how policies are applied and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 30 10 income and expenses.
Judgements made by management in the application recorded as goodwill.
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 64 78 of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the financial statements Reclassification to held for sale 6 and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment are discussed The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents 6 4 in accounting policy x. given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 19 82 64 at the date of acquisition.
No changes have been made to the Groups accounting policies in the year ended 30 April 2015.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently in The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements from the acquisition date.
accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
c Revenue b Basis of consolidation Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, i Subsidiaries net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts and The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated after eliminating sales within the Group.
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when: that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired of ownership to the buyer: or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income all significant performance obligations have been met: statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains nor effective control over the goods sold: and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
A list of key it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the subsidiaries is included note 34. transaction will flow to the Group: and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
ii Interests in equity accounted investments The Groups interests in equity accounted investments comprise of interests This is typically when either the goods are loaded onto the collection in associates and joint ventures.
An associate is an entity over which the vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the goods are unloaded Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the at the delivery address if the Group is responsible for delivery.
financial and operating policy decisions of the investment.
com 90 Financial Statements 90 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other financial d Supplier rebates instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form of volume in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign currency entities, based rebates and early settlement discounts.
They are recognised as a the cumulative exchange difference recorded in the translation reserve reduction in operating costs in the year to which they relate.
At the period is taken to the Consolidated Income Statement as part of the gain or loss end the Group is sometimes required to estimate supplier income due from on disposal.
annual agreements for volume rebates.
h Intangible assets Included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are amounts i Goodwill receivable of 5m in respect of supplier rebates.
The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable e Government grants assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired i Emission quotas entity.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in relation to the fair The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
value allocation of the purchase price.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially recognised at a nominal value of nil.
As a result, no asset or liability is initially recognised in the Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The useful statement of financial position.
A provision is recognised if there is any life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill is allocated to the anticipated shortfall in the level of quotas received or purchased when cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to compared with actual emissions in any given period, measured at the benefit from the synergies of the combination and is tested annually market price of such quotas at the reporting date.
Excess emission for impairment: or more frequently if impairment is indicated.
quotas acquired as part of a business combination are recognised On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable as intangible assets at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss ii Other recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Other government grants are recognised in the statement of financial ii Intellectual property position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions and impairment losses.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset against the expenses in the same periods in which the expenses iii Computer software are incurred.
Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included over the expected useful life of the asset to which it relates on a basis within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software is consistent with the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided on the treated as an intangible asset.
full cost of the assets before deducting grants.
iv Customer related f Dividends Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid during are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less the year are recognised directly in equity.
g Foreign currency translation v Other intangible assets The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
translated into the respective functional currencies of Group companies at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated into the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 91 90 Financial Statements Financial Statements 91 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of ii Calculation of recoverable amount 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other financial The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is calculated as the value-ind Supplier rebates h Intangible assets continued instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed or the net selling price, if The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form of volume vi Amortisation in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign currency entities, greater.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the cash flows expected based rebates and early settlement discounts.
They are recognised as a Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to the the cumulative exchange difference recorded in the translation reserve to be generated by the CGU group of CGUs being tested for evidence of reduction in operating costs in the year to which they relate.
At the period income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives is taken to the Consolidated Income Statement as part of the gain or loss impairment.
This is done using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the end the Group is sometimes required to estimate supplier income due from of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
current assessment of the time value of money, and the country specific annual agreements for volume rebates.
other than goodwill are amortised from the date they are available for use.
risks for which the cash flows have not been adjusted.
For an asset that h Intangible assets does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable Included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are amounts The estimated useful lives are as follows: i Goodwill amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
receivable of 5m in respect of supplier rebates.
The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the Intellectual property Up to 20 years iii Reversals of impairment purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable Computer software 3-5 years e Government grants Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect of assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired Customer relationships 5-15 years i Emission quotas other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in entity.
i Property, plant and equipment and other investments the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment value allocation of the purchase price.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially recognised at a nominal Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does value of nil.
The useful depreciation and impairment losses.
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net statement of financial position.
Goodwill is allocated to the of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
anticipated shortfall in the level of quotas received or purchased when Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to compared with actual emissions in any given period, measured at the basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant and benefit from the synergies of the combination and is tested annually k Derivative financial instruments market price of such quotas at the reporting date.
Excess emission equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately for impairment: or more frequently if impairment is indicated.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, quotas acquired as part of a business combination are recognised or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if shorter.
Land is not currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, currency and On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable as intangible assets at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
commodity risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss and the financing of these activities.
The Group has a policy not to, and ii Other The estimated useful lives are as follows: recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
does not, undertake any speculative activity in these instruments.
Other government grants are recognised in the statement of financial Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-50 years ii Intellectual property position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 2-25 years Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently including IT hardware and impairment losses.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair Motor vehicles 3-5 years are offset against the expenses in the same periods in which the expenses value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
iii Computer software are incurred.
Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement During the year, the estimated useful lives were reviewed and aligned, Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when over the expected useful life of the asset to which it relates on a basis and the fair value exercise on the acquisition of SCA Packaging finalised.
within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software is designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when the consistent with the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided on the As a result, depreciation in the year was reduced by 7 million.
treated as an intangible asset.
financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the underlying risk.
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in unquoted iv Customer related For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: f Dividends equity and debt securities which are carried at cost, less any impairment, Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid during and restricted cash.
are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the the year are recognised directly in equity.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Gains or losses arising on the sale of surplus property assets are recorded through operating profit before exceptional items.
For further information g Foreign currency translation cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows v Other intangible assets on current year gains or losses, see note 27.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a statement Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are of financial position item or a highly probable forecast transaction: or at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
j Impairment translated into the respective functional currencies of Group companies at hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity.
The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, including tangible and the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
If any such are translated into the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates indicators exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Goodwill relationship as follows: ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of is tested for impairment annually at the same time, regardless of the monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the Consolidated Income Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for presence of an impairment indicator.
An impairment loss is recognised Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged and the derivative is whenever the carrying amount of an asset, collection of assets or its historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses from both the hedged item CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised rates at the dates of the transactions.
and the fair value of derivatives are taken to the income statement.
The in the income statement.
Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a functional i Cash generating units expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate For the purposes of impairment testing, each segment, split by process, criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Income and expenses for each income statement is a separate CGU.
Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a and other intangibles is carried out at an individual CGU level.
Goodwill reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing impairment testing is carried out based on regional groupings of CGUs on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated as illustrated in note 10, as this is the lowest level at which goodwill is at the date of the transactions.
monitored for internal management purposes.
com 92 Financial Statements 92 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED equivalents are stated at amortised cost.
k Derivative financial instruments continued Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is excluded Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated financial statements instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion and presented within other investments in the Consolidated Statement is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are of Financial Position.
Restricted cash is stated at amortised cost.
transferred to the income statement in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale p Borrowings or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
stated at amortised cost unless designated in a fair value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being accounted for on an accruals basis in the income If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised statement using the effective interest method.
without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from the previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast associated borrowings within current liabilities.
transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as q Employee benefits above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts i Defined contribution schemes previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel expenses in the income Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of the statement, as incurred.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit schemes Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes when the foreign entity is sold.
is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to its present value amount and derivatives are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from recognised in the income statement as personnel expense: a corresponding derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are liability for all future benefits is established on the statement of financial not effective as hedging instruments.
position and the fair value of any schemes assets is deducted.
The net present value of the expected future payments under options The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit rated bonds over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Groups subsidiaries that have maturity dates approximating to the duration of the schemes are shown as a financial liability.
At the end of each period, the valuation obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in profit or loss the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised for the period.
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
l Treasury shares iii Share-based payment transactions When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares of the options is recognised as personnel expense, with a corresponding and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
increase in equity, over the period that the employees unconditionally become entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the options granted is m Trade and other receivables measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the terms and Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment provisions.
conditions upon which the options were granted.
The total amount to n Inventories be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course vesting conditions.
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured a corresponding adjustment to equity.
inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
r Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group o Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, a Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation and it is probable overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 93 92 Financial Statements Financial Statements 93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash and cash be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no 1.
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
k Derivative financial instruments continued s Trade and other payables Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is excluded Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
v Assets held for sale from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated financial statements instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities t Leases and presented within other investments in the Consolidated Statement is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than i Finance leases of Financial Position.
transferred to the income statement in the same period during which through continuing use, are classified as held for sale.
Immediately Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale before classification as held for sale, the assets, or components of a disposal p Borrowings the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and the present value or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial group, are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial Thereafter, generally the assets, or disposal group, are measured at the costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any stated at amortised cost unless designated in a fair value hedge relationship, are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill, and then to with borrowing costs being accounted for on an accruals basis in the income If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised charged to the income statement so that a constant periodic rate of interest the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is statement using the effective interest method.
without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases to is recognised on the outstanding balance of the liability.
allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets and employee be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts benefit assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from the ii Operating leases previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on the to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as q Employee benefits recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts i Defined contribution schemes of any cumulative impairment loss.
previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised u Taxation w Exceptional items as an employee benefit expense within personnel expenses in the income Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of the Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, size statement, as incurred.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist in the to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit schemes understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group, are classified Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, and disclosed as exceptional items.
Such items include business disposals, when the foreign entity is sold.
is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction at the reporting date, and any restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to its present value amount and derivatives are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different jurisdictions recognised in the income statement as personnel expense: a corresponding x Critical accounting policies derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are and judgement is required in determining the appropriate provision for liability for all future benefits is established on the statement of financial The application of the Groups accounting policies requires management not effective as hedging instruments.
transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such position and the fair value of any schemes assets is deducted.
to make estimates and assumptions.
These estimates and assumptions circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based The net present value of the expected future payments under options affect the reported assets and liabilities and financial results of the Group.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit rated bonds on the best information available and where the anticipated liability is both over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Groups subsidiaries Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
that have maturity dates approximating to the duration of the schemes probable and estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current when the are shown as a financial liability.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using The Groups accounting policies that are most critical to an understanding Group expects to settle the liability within 12 months with the remainder of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in profit or loss the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised of the results and position of the Group, and the judgements involved in as non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are included in income for the period.
their application, are as follows: taxes both in the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated l Treasury shares Statement of Financial Position.
Where the final outcome of such matters i Impairments iii Share-based payment transactions When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of differs from the amount recorded, any differences may impact the income When applying IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the Group compares the The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which the final determination carrying value of tangible and intangible non-current assets with the The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares is made.
higher of their net realisable value and value-in-use to determine of the options is recognised as personnel expense, with a corresponding and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
Impairment testing is an area requiring increase in equity, over the period that the employees unconditionally Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability method, management judgement.
become entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the options granted is m Trade and other receivables providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the terms and Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment provisions.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts To determine the present value of expected future cash flows, certain conditions upon which the options were granted.
The total amount to used for taxation purposes.
assumptions have to be made in respect of uncertain matters including n Inventories be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the managements expectations of a the discount rates reflecting the risks The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market involved, b the timing and quantum of capital expenditure, c short and with respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course vesting conditions.
long-term growth rates and d the future development of the business.
recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of Whilst the Directors consider their assumptions to be realistic, if actual combination or in a manner that initially impacts accounting or taxable The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact results differ from expectations the Groups impairment evaluation could profit : and temporary differences relating to investment in subsidiaries includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and be affected.
In addition, the use of different estimates, assumptions and and equity accounted investees to the extent that they will probably not them to their existing location and condition.
judgements, in particular those involved in a determining a value based on reverse in the foreseeable future and the Group is able to control the inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of our current expectations of future conditions and the associated cash flows reversal of such temporary differences.
The amount of deferred tax overheads based on normal operating capacity.
r Provisions from the Groups operations, b our determination of the level at which provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group o Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash groups of assets can be reasonably tested for impairment separately from of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, a Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank other parts of the business, and c our treatment of centrally held assets, or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation and it is probable overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the could each result in material differences in the carrying values of assets that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash and assessments of impairment.
See note 10 for additional information.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can dssmith.
com 94 Financial Statements 94 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued iii Provisions 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of the x Critical accounting policies continued expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
These ii Pensions and other employee benefits estimates are made, taking account of information available and different IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 requires the Group to make possible outcomes, and are reviewed on a regular basis.
assumptions including, but not limited to, rates of inflation, discount iv Taxation rates and life expectancies.
The use of different assumptions, in any of The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and the above calculations, could have a material effect on the accounting regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the values of the relevant statement of financial position assets and liabilities Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise judgement in determining which could also result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as income tax provisions, along with the recognition of deferred tax recognised in profit or loss over time.
These assumptions are subject assets liabilities.
While the Group aims to ensure that estimates recorded to periodic review.
See note 25 for additional information.
are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
y IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2018 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Venture 30 April 2017 Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 30 April 2016 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2017 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 30 April 2017 Of these, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to have the most significant effect.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 concerns the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, the fide-recognition of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending 30 April 2016 will have a material effect on its financial statements.
These standards have all been endorsed by the EU, with the exception of IFRS 9 and Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 95 94 Financial Statements Financial Statements 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued iii Provisions 1.
SEGMENT REPORTING The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of the x Critical accounting policies continued Operating segments expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
These ii Pensions and other employee benefits IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance and estimates are made, taking account of information available and different IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 requires the Group to make allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8.
Further details of these segments possible outcomes, and are reviewed on a regular basis.
assumptions including, but not limited to, rates of inflation, discount are given in the Strategic Report on pages 3 and 26 to 27. iv Taxation rates and life expectancies.
The use of different assumptions, in any of Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central administration costs The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and the above calculations, could have a material effect on the accounting are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year-on-year.
All assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment, except for items of a regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the values of the relevant statement of financial position assets and liabilities financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current asset investments.
Debt and associated interest is managed Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise judgement in determining which could also result in a change to the cost of such liabilities as at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the segments.
income tax provisions, along with the recognition of deferred tax recognised in profit or loss over time.
DACH and Central Total Western Northern Europe Continuing are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics Operations Year ended 30 April 2015 Note m m m m m m External revenue 905 941 922 750 302 3,820 y IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective EBITDA 107 99 119 89 38 452 The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued new standards Depreciation 11 26 34 23 24 10 117 and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
1 Operating profit 81 65 96 65 28 335 Effective date Unallocated items: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending Amortisation 10 46 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 Exceptional items 4 40 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2018 Total operating profit continuing operations 249 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Venture 30 April 2017 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 30 April 2016 Segment assets 709 728 829 612 174 3,052 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2017 Unallocated items: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 30 April 2017 Equity accounted investments and other investments 21 Of these, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to have the most significant effect.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Derivative financial instruments 37 Measurement.
IFRS 9 concerns the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, the fide-recognition of financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents 95 and hedge accounting.
Tax 96 Total assets 3,301 The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending 30 April 2016 will have a material effect on its financial statements.
These standards have all been endorsed by the EU, with the exception of IFRS 9 and Amendments to Segment liabilities 250 314 166 188 61 979 IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 805 Derivative financial instruments 31 Tax 268 Employee benefits 200 Total liabilities 2,283 Capital expenditure 42 35 39 41 10 167 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
com 96 Financial Statements 96 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED DACH and Central Total Western Northern Europe Continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics Operations Year ended 30 April 2014 Note m m m m m m External revenue 929 1,017 1,029 739 321 4,035 EBITDA 92 102 126 73 37 430 Depreciation 11 28 35 30 20 10 123 1 Operating profit 64 67 96 53 27 307 Unallocated items: Amortisation 10 51 Exceptional items 4 38 Total operating profit continuing operations 218 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Segment assets 708 790 981 641 183 3,303 Unallocated items: Equity accounted investments and other investments 33 Derivative financial instruments 6 Cash and cash equivalents 98 Tax 95 Total assets 3,535 Segment liabilities 230 319 192 196 76 1,013 Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 927 Derivative financial instruments 60 Tax 253 Employee benefits 151 Total liabilities 2,404 Capital expenditure 40 41 47 35 11 174 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
Geographical areas In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are based on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and intangible assets which are monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
External revenue Non-current assets Capital expenditure 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m m m m m UK 879 933 357 346 42 43 France 620 688 211 221 27 32 Germany 579 613 241 260 28 27 Italy 429 433 161 169 19 16 Rest of the World 1,313 1,368 377 379 51 56 3,820 4,035 1,347 1,375 167 174 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 97 96 Financial Statements Financial Statements 97 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
OPERATING PROFIT 2015 2014 DACH and Central Total Continuing operations m m Western Northern Europe Continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics Operations Operating costs Year ended 30 April 2014 Note m m m m m m Cost of sales 1,926 2,127 External revenue 929 1,017 1,029 739 321 4,035 Other production costs 740 763 EBITDA 92 102 126 73 37 430 Distribution 275 281 Depreciation 11 28 35 30 20 10 123 Administrative expenses 575 592 1 Operating profit 64 67 96 53 27 307 3,516 3,763 Unallocated items: Details of exceptional items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Amortisation 10 51 Exceptional items 4 38 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: Total operating profit continuing operations 218 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Depreciation owned assets 115 118 Segment assets 708 790 981 641 183 3,303 leased assets 2 5 Unallocated items: Amortisation of intangible assets 46 51 Equity accounted investments and other investments 33 Profit on sale of non-current assets 8 8 Derivative financial instruments 6 Hire of plant and machinery 14 17 Cash and cash equivalents 98 Other operating lease rentals 21 24 Tax 95 Research and development 6 6 Total assets 3,535 Segment liabilities 230 319 192 196 76 1,013 2015 2014 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Unallocated items: Auditors remuneration m m m m m m Borrowings and accrued interest 927 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 60 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services: Tax 253 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.9 1.5 0.6 0.8 1.4 Employee benefits 151 Total audit fees 0.7 0.9 1.6 0.7 0.8 1.5 Total liabilities 2,404 Corporate finance services 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Capital expenditure 40 41 47 35 11 174 Tax and other services 0.1 0.1 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Total Auditors remuneration 1.1 0.9 2.0 1.3 0.8 2.1 Geographical areas In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are based on the Auditors remuneration includes continuing and discontinued operations.
geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and intangible assets which are monitored A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 58 to 61 and includes an explanation at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
of how the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the external Auditor.
com 98 Financial Statements 98 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Items are presented as exceptional in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
2015 2014 Continuing operations m m SCA Packaging integration costs 42 SCA Packaging acquisition finalisation 39 SCA Packaging related exceptional costs 3 Acquisition related costs 4 4 Other restructuring costs 31 29 Impairment of assets 4 5 Rebranding 4 Loss gain on divestments 5 4 Other 4 3 Total pre-tax exceptional items recognised in operating profit 40 38 Income tax credit on exceptional items 10 22 Share of exceptional loss of associate, net of tax 7 3 Exceptional finance costs 4 Total post-tax exceptional items 41 19 2014 15 Acquisition costs of 4m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees relating to the review of potential deals, and deals completed during the year.
Of the 31m other restructuring costs, 10m relates to UK site closures and reorganisations, 11m relates to restructuring of businesses in the DACH and Northern Europe region and 3m relates to restructuring of businesses in the Recycling division.
Impairment of assets of 4m relate to the impairment of assets in UK Packaging and France Packaging.
The loss on divestments of 5m comprises a 3m gain on the disposal of the Foam business in Denmark and Sweden in September 2014, a gain of 2m on the step acquisition of the Italian Recycling business from 50% to 100% in July 2014, offset by a loss of 9m on the divestment of the Nantes paper mill in France in January 2015 and other losses on divestment of 1m.
Other exceptional items of 4m principally relate to the release of acquisition related provisions of 16m, partially offset by the costs of continuing UK centralisation projects of 9m.
The share of exceptional loss of associate relates to the Groups share of post-tax foreign exchange losses recognised in the Groups Ukrainian associate Rubezhansk as a result of the significant decline in the value of the Ukrainian currency, Hryvnia, during the local geopolitical crisis note 12.
Exceptional finance costs of 4m relate to the write-off of unamortised finance costs relating to the SCA Packaging acquisition following the refinancing of borrowings in May 2014.
The above items give rise to a net income tax credit at the local applicable tax rate with the exception of gains and losses on some of the divestments which are not subject to tax under local rules, impairments not deductible for tax purposes, and non-tax deductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 99 98 Financial Statements Financial Statements 99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS CONTINUED Items are presented as exceptional in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors consider 2013 14 should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include business disposals, SCA Packaging integration costs relate to the completion of integration projects which began in 2012 13. restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
The SCA Packaging completion process concluded in December 2013.
Together with the effects of the subsequent acquisition of the power plant adjacent 2015 2014 to the paper mill in Italy, and the release of an onerous contract provision recognised in the statement of financial position on acquisition of SCA Packaging, Continuing operations m m the Group has recorded a gain of 39m.
SCA Packaging integration costs 42 SCA Packaging acquisition finalisation 39 Acquisition costs of 4m primarily relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees relating to the finalisation of the completion accounts process of the acquisition of SCA Packaging.
SCA Packaging related exceptional costs 3 Acquisition related costs 4 4 In November 2013, the Group announced a major rebranding, bringing the businesses together under one unified corporate identity.
Of the 4m cost Other restructuring costs 31 29 in the year, the majority related to signage, internal and external communication and marketing costs.
Impairment of assets 4 5 Rebranding 4 Of the 29m other restructuring costs, 12m relates to restructuring and rationalisation in the Plastics businesses, 7m relates to UK site closures and Loss gain on divestments 5 4 reorganisations, and 4m relates to restructuring of businesses in the DACH and Northern Europe region.
Other 4 3 The income tax credit on exceptional items includes the reversal of prior year provisions for exceptional tax and the tax effect of exceptional items that Total pre-tax exceptional items recognised in operating profit 40 38 are subject to tax.
Income tax credit on exceptional items 10 22 Share of exceptional loss of associate, net of tax 7 3 5.
FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS Exceptional finance costs 4 2015 2014 Total post-tax exceptional items 41 19 Continuing operations m m Interest income from financial assets 1 1 2014 15 Other 2 2 Acquisition costs of 4m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees relating to the review of potential deals, and deals completed during the year.
Finance income 3 3 Of the 31m other restructuring costs, 10m relates to UK site closures and reorganisations, 11m relates to restructuring of businesses in the DACH and Interest on loans and overdrafts 37 41 Northern Europe region and 3m relates to restructuring of businesses in the Recycling division.
Other 2 3 Finance costs 39 44 Impairment of assets of 4m relate to the impairment of assets in UK Packaging and France Packaging.
The loss on divestments of 5m comprises a 3m gain on the disposal of the Foam business in Denmark and Sweden in September 2014, a gain of 2m 6.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES on the step acquisition of the Italian Recycling business from 50% to 100% in July 2014, offset by a loss of 9m on the divestment of the Nantes paper mill 2015 2014 in France in January 2015 and other losses on divestment of 1m.
Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 672 702 Other exceptional items of 4m principally relate to the release of acquisition related provisions of 16m, partially offset by the costs of continuing UK Social security costs 135 140 centralisation projects of 9m.
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 29 30 The share of exceptional loss of associate relates to the Groups share of post-tax foreign exchange losses recognised in the Groups Ukrainian associate Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 25 4 7 Rubezhansk as a result of the significant decline in the value of the Ukrainian currency, Hryvnia, during the local geopolitical crisis note 12.
Share-based payment expense note 26 5 4 Personnel expenses 845 883 Exceptional finance costs of 4m relate to the write-off of unamortised finance costs relating to the SCA Packaging acquisition following the refinancing of borrowings in May 2014.
2015 2014 The above items give rise to a net income tax credit at the local applicable tax rate with the exception of gains and losses on some of the divestments Average number of employees Number Number which are not subject to tax under local rules, impairments not deductible for tax purposes, and non-tax deductible deal related advisory fees in relation UK 5,374 5,256 to acquisitions and disposals.
Western Europe 6,010 5,741 DACH and Northern Europe 5,301 5,523 Central Europe and Italy 4,781 4,321 Rest of the World 548 623 Average number of employees 22,014 21,464 dssmith.
com 100 Financial Statements 100 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Current tax expense Current year 73 61 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 6 72 55 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10 1 Reduction in UK tax rate 2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 8 7 18 10 Total income tax expense before exceptional items 54 45 Tax relating to exceptional items note 4 10 22 Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 44 23 Discontinued operations Current tax expense adjustment in respect of prior years 3 Total income tax expense in the income statement from discontinued operations 3 The tax credit on amortisation was 12m 2013 14: 14m.
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Profit before income tax 200 167 Share of profit loss of associates 7 3 Profit before tax and share of profit loss of associates 207 170 Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 20.92% 2013 14: 22.83% 43 39 Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 19 14 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 18 35 Non-deductible expenses 17 25 Non-taxable gains 3 Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 2 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to acquired businesses 6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 9 15 Effect of change in corporation tax rates 3 2 Income tax expense total Group 44 26 Income tax expense from continuing operations 44 23 Income tax expense from discontinued operations 3 The Finance Act 2013 included a staged 3% reduction to the main UK Corporation tax rate to 20% effective 1 April 2015.
Accordingly, the rate applied to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities is 20% 2013 14: 20%.
There have been no further indications of additional changes to the rate of corporation tax from 20%.
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity Tax Tax credit credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Actuarial losses gains on employee benefits 65 10 55 57 18 39 Foreign currency translation differences and reclassification from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment 105 21 126 55 6 61 Movements in cash flow hedges 5 1 4 16 2 14 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 165 12 177 14 22 36 Issue of share capital 6 6 Share-based payment expense 5 3 2 4 5 9 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 94 94 74 74 Other comprehensive expense and changes in equity 254 15 269 78 17 95 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 101 100 Financial Statements Financial Statements 101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 2015 2014 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations Continuing operations m m 2015 2014 Current tax expense Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 156m 143m Current year 73 61 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 941m 932m Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 6 Basic earnings per share 16.6p 15.3p 72 55 Deferred tax expense Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10 1 2015 2014 Reduction in UK tax rate 2 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 156m 143m Adjustment in respect of prior years 8 7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 941m 932m 18 10 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 9m 8m Total income tax expense before exceptional items 54 45 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 950m 940m Tax relating to exceptional items note 4 10 22 Diluted earnings per share 16.4p 15.2p Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 44 23 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations Discontinued operations 2015 2014 Current tax expense adjustment in respect of prior years 3 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 3m Total income tax expense in the income statement from discontinued operations 3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 941m 932m The tax credit on amortisation was 12m 2013 14: 14m.
Basic earnings per share 0.3p The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 3m Profit before income tax 200 167 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 941m 932m Share of profit loss of associates 7 3 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements n a n a Profit before tax and share of profit loss of associates 207 170 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 941m 932m Diluted earnings per share 0.3p Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 20.92% 2013 14: 22.83% 43 39 The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held as treasury shares during the year of nil 2013 14: 1m.
Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 19 14 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 18 35 Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations Non-deductible expenses 17 25 The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and Non-taxable gains 3 amortisation of intangible assets, better explains the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 2 as follows: Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to acquired businesses 6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 9 15 2015 2014 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Effect of change in corporation tax rates 3 2 pence pence pence pence Income tax expense total Group 44 26 m per share per share m per share per share Income tax expense from continuing operations 44 23 Basic earnings 156 16.6p 16.4p 143 15.3p 15.2p Income tax expense from discontinued operations 3 Add back amortisation, after tax 34 3.6p 3.6p 37 4.1p 4.0p Add back exceptional items, after tax 41 4.3p 4.3p 19 2.0p 1.9p The Finance Act 2013 included a staged 3% reduction to the main UK Corporation tax rate to 20% effective 1 April 2015.
Accordingly, the rate applied to UK Adjusted earnings 231 24.5p 24.3p 199 21.4p 21.1p deferred tax assets and liabilities is 20% 2013 14: 20%.
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity Tax Tax credit credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Actuarial losses gains on employee benefits 65 10 55 57 18 39 Foreign currency translation differences and reclassification from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment 105 21 126 55 6 61 Movements in cash flow hedges 5 1 4 16 2 14 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 165 12 177 14 22 36 Issue of share capital 6 6 Share-based payment expense 5 3 2 4 5 9 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 94 94 74 74 Other comprehensive expense and changes in equity 254 15 269 78 17 95 dssmith.
com 102 Financial Statements 102 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
DIVIDENDS PROPOSED AND PAID 2015 2014 Pence Pence per share m per share m 2013 14 interim dividend paid 3.2p 30 2013 14 final dividend paid 6.8p 64 2014 15 interim dividend paid 3.7p 35 2014 15 final dividend proposed 7.7p 73 2015 2014 m m Paid during the year 94 74 The interim dividend in respect of 2014 15 of 3.7 pence per share 35m was paid after the year end on 1 May 2015.
The 2013 14 interim and final dividends were paid during the 2014 15 financial year.
A final dividend in respect of 2014 15 of 7.7 pence per share 73m has been proposed by the Directors after the reporting date.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2014 631 35 26 373 53 1,118 Acquisitions 15 8 23 Additions 5 3 8 Divestments 6 2 8 Disposals 1 2 2 5 Reclassification to held for sale 1 1 Other reclassifications 3 3 Currency translation 51 4 2 41 4 102 At 30 April 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2014 27 25 14 76 15 157 Amortisation 3 2 39 2 46 Disposals 1 2 1 4 Currency translation 2 2 1 11 2 18 At 30 April 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 Carrying amount At 1 May 2014 604 10 12 297 38 961 At 30 April 2015 563 13 9 236 34 855 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 103 102 Financial Statements Financial Statements 103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Intellectual Customer 2015 2014 Goodwill Software property related Other Total Pence Pence m m m m m m per share m per share m Cost 2013 14 interim dividend paid 3.2p 30 At 1 May 2013 652 35 28 385 56 1,156 2013 14 final dividend paid 6.8p 64 Additions 2 2 2 6 2014 15 interim dividend paid 3.7p 35 Adjustment relating to business combination in previous year 3 3 2014 15 final dividend proposed 7.7p 73 Divestments 2 1 3 6 Disposals 1 1 2 2015 2014 Reclassification to held for sale 2 2 m m Currency translation 16 1 1 12 1 31 Paid during the year 94 74 At 30 April 2014 631 35 26 373 53 1,118 The interim dividend in respect of 2014 15 of 3.7 pence per share 35m was paid after the year end on 1 May 2015.
The 2013 14 interim and final Amortisation and impairment dividends were paid during the 2014 15 financial year.
A final dividend in respect of 2014 15 of 7.7 pence per share 73m has been proposed by the At 1 May 2013 28 22 12 37 13 112 Directors after the reporting date.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Disposals 1 1 Currency translation 11 3 5 Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total At 30 April 2014 27 25 14 76 15 157 m m m m m m Cost Carrying amount At 1 May 2014 631 35 26 373 53 1,118 At 1 May 2013 624 13 16 348 43 1,044 Acquisitions 15 8 23 At 30 April 2014 604 10 12 297 38 961 Additions 5 3 8 Divestments 6 2 8 Goodwill Disposals 1 2 2 5 The CGU groups below represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger than the operating Reclassification to held for sale 1 1 segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
com 104 Financial Statements 104 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Goodwill impairment tests key assumptions and methodology The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended 30 April 2015 as the recoverable amount of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2016 and are based upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the business: the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts is the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon historic performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the key operating assumptions as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure required to generate the terminal cash flows: cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2017 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the CGU groups based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database.
This resulted in an average growth rate for the total Group of 1.7%: and the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2013 14: 9.5%.
The WACC is a function of the cost of debt and equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year German Bund yields 70% and 30 year UK gilts 30%, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to 3.75%, which reflects the increased risk of investing in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the market as a whole.
This Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not reflected in the cash flow projections.
Goodwill impairment tests sensitivities The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst the Directors believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key assumptions were adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
To support their assertions, the Directors have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above situations.
Key sensitivities tested included future growth and discount rates.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there would still be significant headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
Based on this analysis the Directors believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would cause the carrying value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Therefore at 30 April 2015 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value of goodwill.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 105 104 Financial Statements Financial Statements 105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Plant and Fixtures Under Goodwill impairment tests key assumptions and methodology buildings equipment and fittings construction Total The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amounts m m m m m of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended 30 April 2015 as the recoverable amount Cost of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
At 1 May 2014 589 1,713 47 86 2,435 Acquisitions 10 23 2 35 The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: Additions 11 71 3 93 178 the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2016 and are based upon past Divestments 4 12 16 performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the business: Disposals 9 37 2 1 49 the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts is the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon historic Transfers 11 69 3 77 performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the key operating assumptions Reclassification to held for sale 8 8 as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: Currency translation 49 125 6 7 187 At 30 April 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure required to generate the terminal cash flows: Depreciation and impairment cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2017 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the CGU groups At 1 May 2014 102 938 23 1,063 based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database.
This resulted in an average growth rate for Depreciation charge 17 97 3 117 the total Group of 1.7%: and Impairment 4 4 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2013 14: 9.5%.
The WACC Divestments 2 12 14 is a function of the cost of debt and equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year German Bund yields 70% and 30 Disposals 2 35 2 39 year UK gilts 30%, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to 3.75%, which reflects the increased risk of investing Reclassification to held for sale 4 4 in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the market as a whole.
This Group rate has been adjusted Currency translation 11 66 4 81 for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not reflected in the cash flow projections.
At 30 April 2015 104 922 20 1,046 Goodwill impairment tests sensitivities Carrying amount The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst the Directors At 1 May 2014 487 775 24 86 1,372 believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key assumptions were At 30 April 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements.
At 30 April 2015, the carrying amount of land and buildings held significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and under finance leases was 6m 30 April 2014: 4m.
deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines being built for various sites across the Group.
com 106 Financial Statements 106 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Land and Plant and Fixtures Under buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2013 640 1,718 50 69 2,477 Acquisitions 23 23 Additions 11 88 3 68 170 Divestments 1 1 Disposals 9 62 2 73 Transfers 18 67 49 Reclassification to held for sale 15 59 1 75 Currency translation 20 61 3 2 86 At 30 April 2014 589 1,713 47 86 2,435 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2013 113 969 23 1 1,106 Depreciation charge 20 99 4 123 Impairment 2 2 Disposals 6 57 1 64 Transfers 9 9 Reclassification to held for sale 6 44 1 51 Currency translation 10 40 2 1 53 At 30 April 2014 102 938 23 1,063 Carrying amount At 1 May 2013 527 749 27 68 1,371 At 30 April 2014 487 775 24 86 1,372 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 107 106 Financial Statements Financial Statements 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED 12.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Land and Plant and Fixtures Under 2015 2014 buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m m m At 1 May 24 24 Cost Disposal 3 At 1 May 2013 640 1,718 50 69 2,477 Adoption of IFRS 11 3 Acquisitions 23 23 Reclassification 4 Additions 11 88 3 68 170 Share of Rubezhansk exceptional charge 7 3 Divestments 1 1 Currency translation 1 Disposals 9 62 2 73 At 30 April 17 24 Transfers 18 67 49 In July 2014 the Group acquired the remaining 50% interest in Italmaceri S. r. l..
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements the Group Reclassification to held for sale 15 59 1 75 ceased equity accounting for its initial 50% interest on the transaction date when the Group gained control.
At 30 April 2015 Italmaceri S. r. l. is accounted Currency translation 20 61 3 2 86 for as a 100% owned subsidiary and is fully consolidated into the Group financial statements.
At 30 April 2014 589 1,713 47 86 2,435 During the year ended 30 April 2014, the Group adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
As such, the Groups 50% interest in Italmaceri S. r. l. changed from Depreciation and impairment proportionate consolidation to equity accounting in the prior period, as it was classified as a joint venture.
At 1 May 2013 113 969 23 1 1,106 Depreciation charge 20 99 4 123 Principal equity accounted investments Impairment 2 2 Ownership interest Principal country Disposals 6 57 1 64 Nature of business of operation 2015 2014 Transfers 9 9 OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill Rubezhansk Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6% Reclassification to held for sale 6 44 1 51 Turkish Group Paper, packaging and recycling Turkey 49.0% 49.0% Currency translation 10 40 2 1 53 Lantero Group Packaging Spain 25.0% 25.0% At 30 April 2014 102 938 23 1,063 Italmaceri S. r. l. Recycling Italy 100.0% 50.0% Carrying amount The Group accounts for its investments in Rubezhansk and the Turkish Group using the equity method as associates because the Group has the ability At 1 May 2013 527 749 27 68 1,371 to exercise significant influence over the investment due to the Groups equity holdings.
At 30 April 2014 487 775 24 86 1,372 Rubezhansk For four months during the year ended 30 April 2015, the foreign exchange rate between the Ukrainian Hryvnia weakened against the US dollar by over 10% in each month driven by the ongoing political unrest in Ukraine.
The Groups share of the resultant post-tax foreign exchange loss on retranslation of the associates US dollar loan liability has been classified as an exceptional item in the financial statements for the year note 4.
The Group continues to monitor the carrying values of its interest with particular reference to the ongoing political unrest.
Turkey The Group owns direct and indirect holdings in the following Turkish businesses: Yalova Ambalaj Sanayi five Ticaret A.
S : Kaplamin Ambalaj Sanayi five Ticaret A.
S : OVA Oluklu Mukavva Ambalaj Sanayi.
S and Selkasan Kait five Paketleme Malzemeleri Imalat San.
A. S. Direct holdings vary between 2.2% and 49.0%.
Summary of financial information of associates The following items are an aggregate of the financial statements of the Groups main associates on a 100% basis.
com 108 Financial Statements 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
OTHER INVESTMENTS 2015 2014 m m Restricted cash receivable after one year 5 Other investments 3 3 Total non-current investments 3 8 Restricted cash receivable within one year 1 Other investments 1 Total current investments 1 1 14.
INVENTORIES 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 132 142 Work in progress 14 15 Finished goods 110 115 256 272 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2015 were 22m 30 April 2014: 28m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2015 2014 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade receivables 450 556 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 26 27 Prepayments and other receivables 5 124 3 121 5 548 3 650 Of which Of which past due but not impaired neither Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Trade receivables m m m m m m m At 30 April 2015 424 360 41 15 4 3 1 At 30 April 2014 529 451 52 20 5 1 Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance 2015 2014 m m At 1 May 27 36 Uncollectible amounts written off 7 Increase decrease in allowance recognised in the income statement 1 1 Currency translation 2 1 At 30 April 26 27 The majority of the Groups trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days of due date.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2015 2014 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade payables 653 635 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 5 274 4 295 5 927 4 930 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 109 108 Financial Statements Financial Statements 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Restricted cash receivable after one year 5 Intangible assets 1 2 Other investments 3 3 Property, plant and equipment 20 24 Total non-current investments 3 8 Inventories 7 9 Cash 6 Restricted cash receivable within one year 1 Trade and other receivables 12 10 Other investments 1 Total assets held for sale 46 45 Total current investments 1 1 Trade and other payables 15 18 14.
INVENTORIES Total liabilities held for sale 15 18 2015 2014 Assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 April 2015 primarily relate to assets in the UK Paper division and the StePac business in the Plastics division.
NET DEBT Work in progress 14 15 2015 2014 Finished goods 110 115 m m 256 272 Non-current liabilities 781 786 Current liabilities 2 96 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2015 were 22m 30 April 2014: 28m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Net cash and cash equivalents 82 64 Other investments restricted cash 6 2015 2014 Other deposits 33 25 NonNoncurrent Current current Current Net debt 651 827 m m m m The movement in net debt is as follows: Trade receivables 450 556 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 26 27 Foreign Prepayments and other receivables 5 124 3 121 exchange, fair Continuing value and 5 548 3 650 At 1 May operations non-cash At 30 April 2014 Reclassification cash flow Acquisitions movements 2015 m m m m m m Of which Cash and cash equivalents 98 6 10 7 95 Of which past due but not impaired neither Overdrafts 34 20 1 13 Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than Net cash and cash equivalents 64 6 30 6 82 amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Trade receivables m m m m m m m Restricted cash receivable after one year 5 3 2 At 30 April 2015 424 360 41 15 4 3 1 Restricted cash receivable within one year 1 1 At 30 April 2014 529 451 52 20 5 1 Other deposits 25 8 33 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year 782 10 29 25 776 Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year 96 104 1 8 1 2015 2014 Finance leases 4 2 6 m m Derivative financial instruments At 1 May 27 36 assets 4 17 21 Uncollectible amounts written off 7 liabilities 44 5 35 4 Increase decrease in allowance recognised in the income statement 1 1 891 3 124 30 67 733 Currency translation 2 1 Net debt 827 9 154 30 61 651 At 30 April 26 27 Derivative financial instruments above relate to interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge the Groups borrowings.
The difference between The majority of the Groups trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days of due date.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables the amounts shown above and the total derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relates are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the to derivative financial instruments that hedge forecast foreign currency transactions and the Groups purchases of energy.
normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
Non-cash movements relate to the write off of unamortised fees of 4m following the refinancing in May 2014, the ongoing amortisation of fees and 16.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES a new finance lease entered in the year of 2m.
2015 2014 Certain other deposit balances are included, as these short-term receivables have the characteristics of net debt.
NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade payables 653 635 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 5 274 4 295 5 927 4 930 dssmith.
com 110 Financial Statements 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2015 2014 m m Bank balances 79 93 Short-term deposits 16 5 Cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 95 98 Bank overdrafts 13 34 Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 82 64 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2015 2014 NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total m m m m m m Bank and other loans 1 367 368 33 390 423 Note purchase agreements 1 $105m USD private placement 5.66% coupon August 2014 63 63 2 $95m USD private placement 5.80% coupon August 2016 63 63 56 56 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 43 43 49 49 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 43 43 49 49 3 $400m USD private placement 4.48% weighted average coupon August 2017-2022 260 260 238 238 Finance lease liabilities 1 5 6 4 4 2 781 783 96 786 882 1 Swapped to floating-rate 87m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
This was repaid during the year ended 30 April 2015.
2 Swapped to floating-rate 17m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed-rate 41m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
3 Swapped to fixed-rate 130m and fixed-rate 160m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Borrowings are unsecured and measured at amortised cost, except for 14m of note purchase agreements in a fair value hedge relationship 30 April 2014: 77m.
In May 2014, the Group refinanced its committed bank borrowing facilities.
The syndicated term loan facility, under which 380m was outstanding at 30 April 2014, was repaid on 23 May 2014, and replaced with a 300m syndicated bank term loan facility maturing in May 2017.
This facility bears interest at a margin over EURIBOR.
The Group has entered into interest rate swap derivatives with bank counterparties to fix a proportion of the interest on this facility in compliance with Group hedging policy on interest rate risk management.
In addition, on the same date, the 610m syndicated bank revolving credit facility was repaid and replaced with a 800m syndicated bank revolving credit facility maturing in 2019, but with options to extend this facility to 2021.
Advances drawn down under the facility bear interest at a margin over the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR rate.
Since the year end the maturity of this facility has been extended to May 2020.
There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2015 in relation to the above loans and borrowings.
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Expiring between two and five years 649 496 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 111 110 Financial Statements Financial Statements 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED 2015 2014 The repayment profile of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, is as follows: m m 2015 Bank balances 79 93 1 year 12 25 More than Short-term deposits 16 5 or less years years 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 95 98 m m m m m Bank overdrafts 13 34 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 82 64 Fixed-rate 1 51 372 194 618 Floating-rate 1 14 150 165 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2 65 522 194 783 2015 2014 2014 NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total 1 year 12 25 More than m m m m m m or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m Bank and other loans 1 367 368 33 390 423 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Note purchase agreements 1 Fixed-rate 354 276 630 $105m USD private placement 5.66% coupon August 2014 63 63 2 Floating-rate 96 33 123 252 $95m USD private placement 5.80% coupon August 2016 63 63 56 56 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 96 33 477 276 882 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 43 43 49 49 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 43 43 49 49 The Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, are denominated in the following currencies: 3 $400m USD private placement 4.48% weighted average coupon August 2017-2022 260 260 238 238 Finance lease liabilities 1 5 6 4 4 2015 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total 2 781 783 96 786 882 m m m m m 1 Swapped to floating-rate 87m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2 Swapped to floating-rate 17m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed-rate 41m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Fixed-rate 179 439 618 3 Swapped to fixed-rate 130m and fixed-rate 160m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Floating-rate 110 33 22 165 179 549 33 22 783 Borrowings are unsecured and measured at amortised cost, except for 14m of note purchase agreements in a fair value hedge relationship Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts 30 April 2014: 77m.
Floating-rate 24 44 3 11 82 In May 2014, the Group refinanced its committed bank borrowing facilities.
The syndicated term loan facility, under which 380m was outstanding at Net borrowings at 30 April 2015 155 505 30 11 701 30 April 2014, was repaid on 23 May 2014, and replaced with a 300m syndicated bank term loan facility maturing in May 2017.
The Group has entered into interest rate swap derivatives with bank counterparties to fix a proportion of the interest on this 2014 facility in compliance with Group hedging policy on interest rate risk management.
Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m In addition, on the same date, the 610m syndicated bank revolving credit facility was repaid and replaced with a 800m syndicated bank revolving Interest-bearing loans and borrowings credit facility maturing in 2019, but with options to extend this facility to 2021.
Advances drawn down under the facility bear interest at a margin over Fixed-rate 162 468 630 the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR rate.
Floating-rate 5 188 36 23 252 There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2015 in relation to the above loans and borrowings.
167 656 36 23 882 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: Floating-rate 5 47 5 7 64 2015 2014 Net borrowings at 30 April 2014 162 609 31 16 818 m m At 30 April 2015, 70% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were Expiring between two and five years 649 496 denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Groups European operations 30 April 2014: 74%.
Interest rates on floating-rate borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR or base rates.
Finance lease liabilities 2015 2014 Present Present Future value of Future value minimum minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Less than one year 1 1 Between one and five years 3 3 2 2 More than five years 2 2 2 2 Finance lease liabilities 6 6 4 4 dssmith.
com 112 Financial Statements 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and Principal Risk sections of the Strategic Report.
The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into in line with the Groups risk management objectives.
The Groups treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions.
a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: 2015 2014 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 95 95 98 98 Other investments restricted cash 66 Available for sale other investments 4 4 33 Loans and receivables 553 553 653 653 Derivative financial instruments 37 37 66 Total financial assets 689 689 766 766 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 932 932 934 934 Bank and other loans 368 368 423 423 Note purchase agreements 409 500 455 514 Finance lease liabilities 6 6 4 4 Bank overdrafts 13 13 34 34 Derivative financial instruments 31 31 60 60 Total financial liabilities 1,759 1,850 1,910 1,969 The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note purchase agreements, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The majority of the Group's note purchase agreements are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their book values.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, where inputs are observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 113 112 Financial Statements Financial Statements 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
A summary b Derivative financial instruments of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and Principal Risk sections The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts, to manage the risks associated of the Strategic Report.
with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments are carried at their fair value.
The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: The Groups treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions.
a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: m m m m m m 2015 2014 Derivatives held to: Carrying Carrying Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on business activities, amount Fair value amount Fair value borrowings and net investments 21 4 4 44 17 40 m m m m Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 21 4 4 44 17 40 Financial assets Derivatives held to hedge future transactions Cash and cash equivalents 95 95 98 98 Energy costs 16 2 27 16 11 14 Other investments restricted cash 66 Total derivative financial instruments 37 6 31 60 6 54 Available for sale other investments 4 4 33 Loans and receivables 553 553 653 653 Current 13 2 18 20 5 18 Derivative financial instruments 37 37 66 Non-current 24 4 13 40 11 36 Total financial assets 689 689 766 766 37 6 31 60 6 54 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 932 932 934 934 c Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges Bank and other loans 368 368 423 423 i Cash flow hedging reserve movements Note purchase agreements 409 500 455 514 The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year.
Finance lease liabilities 6 6 4 4 2015 2014 Bank overdrafts 13 13 34 34 m m Derivative financial instruments 31 31 60 60 At 1 May 31 17 Total financial liabilities 1,759 1,850 1,910 1,969 Unrealised fair value gain loss on designated cash flow hedges Cross-currency and interest rate swaps 3 4 The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments carried at fair Commodity contracts 22 10 value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward foreign Gain loss recycled from equity to the income statement exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note purchase Commodity contracts 23 agreements, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the Consolidated Statement At 30 April 27 31 of Financial Position.
The gains and losses recycled to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in the Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form part of an effective income statement: fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear 2015 2014 floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their book values.
m m Revenue IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance Cost of sales 23 of the inputs used in making the assessments.
Total gain recycled from equity to the income statement during the year 23 All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, where inputs are observable for the ii Fair value hedges asset and liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
At 30 April 2015, the Group held interest rate and foreign exchange swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and foreign exchange risk on fixed rate debt payable by the Group.
The receive leg of the swap contracts is identical in all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and therefore the hedging is treated as highly effective.
The pre-tax gain on hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement during the year was 5m 2013 14: loss of 11m offset by a pre-tax loss on the fair value of the debt of 5m 2013 14: gain of 12m.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group holds cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The pre-tax gain on the hedges recognised in equity during the year was 30m 2013 14: gain of 7m.
This gain is matched by a similar loss in equity on the retranslation of the hedged foreign subsidiarys net assets resulting in a net gain of nil 2013 14: net gain of nil treated as hedge ineffectiveness in the income statement.
com 114 Financial Statements 114 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED d Risk identification and risk management i Capital management The Group defines its managed capital as equity as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and net debt see note 18.
2015 2014 m m Net debt 651 827 Total equity 1,018 1,131 Managed capital 1,669 1,958 There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year.
Managed capital is different from capital employed defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions and assets liabilities held for sale.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas return on average capital employed is our measure of the level of return being generated by the asset base.
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
The Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having a range of maturities and borrowing from a variety of sources.
The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets regularly and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer and the Group Tax Manager.
The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer.
The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
ii Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk and floating interest rates exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating-rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts which modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
At 30 April 2015, 79% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2014: 71%.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate borrowings at 30 April 2015.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Groups interest rate derivatives.
Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments only affect the Groups income statement.
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
2015 2014 Impact Impact on on total Impact on Impact on profit equity profit total equity m m m m Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points 5 5 5 5 Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
At 30 April 2015, losses of 17m 30 April 2014: losses of 20m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will be during the period to 2022.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 115 114 Financial Statements Financial Statements 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED d Risk identification and risk management Foreign exchange risk i Capital management Foreign exchange risk on investments The Group defines its managed capital as equity as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and net debt see note 18.
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from the Groups presentational currency, sterling.
The Group partly hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency 2015 2014 swap contracts.
Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in equity.
m m Net debt 651 827 Foreign exchange risk on borrowings Total equity 1,018 1,131 The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group hedges this exposure through cross-currency Managed capital 1,669 1,958 swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year.
Managed capital is different from capital employed defined as Foreign exchange risk on transactions property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions and assets liabilities held for sale.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas return on average capital employed is our measure of the level of return being generated Part of this risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 30 April 2015, losses net of tax deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges were nil 30 April 2014: nil.
These amounts will be recycled The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where appropriate, to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within one year.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing The Groups main currency exposure is to the euro and the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
2015 2014 Average Closing Average Closing The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial euro 1.290 1.368 1.191 1.215 risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets regularly and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of a 10% increase and decrease in the sterling exchange rate against all other Group Treasurer and the Group Tax Manager.
The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board currencies representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The analysis is restricted to financial and controlled by the Group Treasurer.
The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments designated as net investment or fair value hedges.
Net investment and fair value hedges are excluded as the impact of the foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and opposite ii Market risk movements in the hedged items.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
2015 2014 Interest rate risk Impact Impact The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk and floating interest rates exposing it Impact on Impact on on total on total to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating-rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts which profit equity profit equity modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities m m m m are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
10% strengthening of sterling 6 10% weakening of sterling 7 At 30 April 2015, 79% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2014: 71%.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the Commodity risk reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate borrowings at 30 April 2015.
The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
The majority of this commodity price risk is managed by a combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2015, losses of 10m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2014: losses of 11m.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Groups interest the income statement, which will occur within three years.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably possible change, The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
on average, over any given year.
A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity.
As all of the Groups commodity financial 2015 2014 instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
Impact Impact on on total Impact on Impact on The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
profit equity profit total equity m m m m 2015 2014 Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points 5 5 5 5 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total Under interest rate swap contracts the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed profit equity profit equity m m m m notional principal amounts.
At 30 April 2015, losses of 17m 30 April 2014: losses of 20m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges 10% increase in electricity prices 1 1 of interest rate risk.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will be 10% increase in gas prices 13 12 during the period to 2022. dssmith.
com 116 Financial Statements 116 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED d Risk identification and risk management continued iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss to the Group.
In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk.
The carrying amount of financial assets at 30 April 2015 was 689m and is analysed in note 21 a.
This represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
iv Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2015, the Group had 649m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2014: 496m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a number of different sources with a range of maturities.
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps.
Contractual repayments 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2015 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 932 927 5 Bank and other loans 372 372 Note purchase agreements 409 165 244 Finance lease liabilities 6 2 3 1 Bank overdrafts 13 13 Interest payments on borrowings 103 21 59 23 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 1,835 963 604 268 Contractual repayments 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2014 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 934 930 4 Bank and other loans 427 33 394 Note purchase agreements 484 71 116 297 Finance lease liabilities 4 1 3 Bank overdrafts 34 34 Interest payments on borrowings 132 37 69 26 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,015 1,105 584 326 Refer to note 29 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 30 for a summary of the Groups capital commitments.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 117 116 Financial Statements Financial Statements 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial instruments excluding interest payments and receipts.
d Risk identification and risk management continued Where the payable and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments or receipts have been iii Credit risk calculated based on exchange rates prevailing at the respective year-ends.
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss to the Group.
The carrying amount of financial Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future contractual maturities.
assets at 30 April 2015 was 689m and is analysed in note 21 a.
Contractual payments receipts Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that 1 year 15 More than counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2015 m m m m See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives 12 8 4 iv Liquidity risk Interest rate and currency swaps: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Payments 574 40 197 337 The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2015, the Group had 649m Receipts 606 44 213 349 of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2014: 496m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a number Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 20 4 12 12 of different sources with a range of maturities.
Contractual payments receipts 1 year 15 More than Contractual repayments Total or less years 5 years 1 year 15 More than At 30 April 2014 m m m m Total or less years 5 years Derivative financial liabilities At 30 April 2015 m m m m Energy derivatives 14 11 3 Non-derivative financial liabilities Interest rate and currency swaps: Trade and other payables 932 927 5 Payments 387 71 68 248 Bank and other loans 372 372 Receipts 357 62 69 226 Note purchase agreements 409 165 244 Total net derivative financial liabilities 44 20 2 22 Finance lease liabilities 6 2 3 1 Bank overdrafts 13 13 22.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Interest payments on borrowings 103 21 59 23 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 1,835 963 604 268 Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Contractual repayments Property, plant and 1 year 15 More than equipment and Employee benefits Tax Total or less years 5 years intangible assets including pensions losses Other Total At 30 April 2014 m m m m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities m m m m m m m m m m Trade and other payables 934 930 4 At 1 May 155 156 48 57 10 18 22 79 77 Bank and other loans 427 33 394 Acquired 2 2 Note purchase agreements 484 71 116 297 Credit charge for the year 18 4 2 7 13 10 11 18 13 Finance lease liabilities 4 1 3 Recognised directly in equity 8 15 21 4 13 19 Bank overdrafts 34 34 Currency translation 8 5 1 5 13 4 Interest payments on borrowings 132 37 69 26 At 30 April 131 155 54 48 23 10 9 18 63 79 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,015 1,105 584 326 At 30 April 2015, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Refer to note 29 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 30 for a summary of the Groups capital commitments.
except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
com 118 Financial Statements 118 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liabilities 121 163 Deferred tax assets 58 84 Net deferred tax 63 79 The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 9m 30 April 2014: 13m.
These losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 286m 30 April 2014: 206m relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 30 April 2015 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in which these subsidiaries operate.
PROVISIONS Restructuring Other Total m m m At 1 May 2014 28 44 72 Charged to income 30 14 44 Credited to income 6 1 7 Utilised 42 28 70 Reclassification 6 6 Currency translation 1 3 4 At 30 April 2015 15 26 41 Non-current 1 6 7 Current 14 20 34 15 26 41 The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures, restructuring and integration costs described in note 4.
Other provisions mainly relate to site restorations and to provisions for vacant leaseholds and various legal claims.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in the contract.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital Number of shares 2015 2014 2015 2014 Millions Millions m m Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 942 939 94 94 During the year ended 30 April 2015, 2,748,030 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee share options.
The net movement in share capital and share premium is disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
In respect of the Companys shares that are held by the Group see overleaf, all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 119 118 Financial Statements Financial Statements 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED 24.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Hedging reserve Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: transactions that have not yet occurred.
2015 2014 Share premium m m The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
Deferred tax liabilities 121 163 Deferred tax assets 58 84 Own shares Net deferred tax 63 79 The reserve for the Companys own shares comprises the cost of the Companys shares held by the Group.
The Group operates a General Employee Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 9m 30 April 2014: 13m.
These losses do not expire under current tax At 30 April 2015, the Trust held 0.1m shares 30 April 2014: 0.5m shares.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2015 was 0.3m 30 April 2014: 2m.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
Non-controlling interests No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 286m 30 April 2014: 206m relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries The Group has various put options in relation to subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group records a liability at the net present value of as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable the expected future payments, with a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-controlling shareholders put option, future.
The temporary differences at 30 April 2015 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK measured at fair value.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recorded within finance costs through the of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in which these income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.
PROVISIONS Total UK Overseas Restructuring Other Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m Balance sheet m m m m m m At 1 May 2014 28 44 72 Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,197 1,042 1,063 932 134 110 Charged to income 30 14 44 Credited to income 6 1 7 Fair value of plan assets Utilised 42 28 70 Equities multi-strategy 568 525 560 514 8 11 Reclassification 6 6 Debt instruments 410 352 388 341 22 11 Currency translation 1 3 4 Insurance contracts 6 21 6 21 At 30 April 2015 15 26 41 Cash and cash equivalents 12 9 6 5 6 4 Other 6 1 6 1 Non-current 1 6 7 1,002 908 954 860 48 48 Current 14 20 34 Net post-retirement plan deficit 195 134 109 72 86 62 15 26 41 Other employee benefit liabilities 5 17 5 17 Total employee benefit liabilities 200 151 109 72 91 79 The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures, restructuring and integration costs described in note 4.
Other provisions Related deferred tax asset 48 40 22 14 26 26 mainly relate to site restorations and to provisions for vacant leaseholds and various legal claims.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is Net employee benefit liabilities 152 111 87 58 65 53 uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in the contract.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES At 30 April 2015, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
The plans are Share capital provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary depending on the conditions and Number of shares practices in the countries concerned.
2015 2014 2015 2014 Millions Millions m m Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the effects on the Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumption, and to develop strategies that could mitigate the risks to which Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 942 939 94 94 these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
During the year ended 30 April 2015, 2,748,030 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee share options.
UK schemes The net movement in share capital and share premium is disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based on pensionable salaries up The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal retirement age of 65 although some members the Company.
are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Increases to pensions are affected by changes in the rate of inflation for the majority of members.
Translation reserve The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Directors The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is responsible for managing the operation, funding and investment strategy the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
com 120 Financial Statements 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED UK schemes continued UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and employer on a basis that prudently reflects the risk to which the Group Scheme is exposed.
The most recent valuation was carried out as at 30 April 2013, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 18 July 2014.
This recovery plan agreed that the Group would remove the deficit by paying annual contributions, starting at 15.7m in the year ended 30 April 2015 and increasing by 2% per annum, for a period of 8 years and 9 months, such that the final contribution is made by 31 January 2023.
As part of the 30 April 2010 valuation, the Trustee Board and the Group agreed to put in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, in addition to the statutory funding requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
The objective of the LTFT is for the Group Scheme to be funded to a level by 30 April 2035 that does not rely on contributions from the employer.
The Group Schemes assets are invested in a diversified range of assets, as noted above.
A portion of the assets are invested in inflation-indexed bonds to provide a partial hedge against inflation and the Group Scheme has agreed a process that moves assets from corporate bonds to index-linked gilts when specific financial targets or triggers are met.
If inflation increases, the Group Schemes obligation will be likely to increase more than the change in the fair value of the assets which would result in an increase in the net liability.
The Group Schemes overseas equity is exposed to currency risk and approximately 50% of this exposure is hedged back to sterling.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment matters, the Investment and Funding Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
As the Group Schemes obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Group Schemes liabilities.
Other assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation are also uncertain.
The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering members a range of investments.
All assets are held independently from the Group.
The Group also operates a small unfunded arrangement in the UK.
Overseas schemes The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to employees after completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement: Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: Switzerland funded scheme, affiliated to a fully insured joint foundation: Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes: and Netherlands transitional arrangements on closure of defined benefit scheme.
In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
Other employee benefits relate to pre-retirement benefits in Germany.
Overseas schemes expose the Group to risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk, investment risk, life expectancy risk and healthcare cost risk.
Actions taken by the local regulator, or changes to legislation, could result in stronger local funding requirements for pension schemes, which could affect the Groups future cash flow.
Movements in the liability for employee benefit plans obligations recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 2015 2014 m m Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,059 1,146 Interest cost 43 41 Service cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 4 7 Member contributions 1 1 Settlement curtailment 2 30 Pension payments 40 41 Unfunded benefits paid 6 1 Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 142 69 Actuarial gains losses experience 2 8 Actuarial losses demographic 6 1 Currency translation 12 4 Reclassification 9 Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,202 1,059 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 121 120 Financial Statements Financial Statements 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED UK schemes continued Movements in the fair value of employee benefit plans assets recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over an appropriate period of time, 2015 2014 taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and employer on a basis that prudently reflects the risk to which the Group Scheme m m is exposed.
The most recent valuation was carried out as at 30 April 2013, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on Schemes assets at 1 May 908 932 18 July 2014.
This recovery plan agreed that the Group would remove the deficit by paying annual contributions, starting at 15.7m in the year ended Employer contributions 17 19 30 April 2015 and increasing by 2% per annum, for a period of 8 years and 9 months, such that the final contribution is made by 31 January 2023.
Member contributions 1 1 Settlement curtailment 2 30 As part of the 30 April 2010 valuation, the Trustee Board and the Group agreed to put in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, Interest income 39 34 in addition to the statutory funding requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
Administration expenses paid from schemes assets 1 The objective of the LTFT is for the Group Scheme to be funded to a level by 30 April 2035 that does not rely on contributions from the employer.
Actuarial gains losses 81 3 The Group Schemes assets are invested in a diversified range of assets, as noted above.
A portion of the assets are invested in inflation-indexed bonds to Pension payments 40 41 provide a partial hedge against inflation and the Group Scheme has agreed a process that moves assets from corporate bonds to index-linked gilts when Currency translation 2 3 specific financial targets or triggers are met.
If inflation increases, the Group Schemes obligation will be likely to increase more than the change in the fair Schemes assets at 30 April 1,002 908 value of the assets which would result in an increase in the net liability.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment matters, the Investment and Funding Durations and expected payment profile Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
As the Group Schemes years years years years years years years obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Group Schemes At 30 April 2015 m m m m m m m liabilities.
Projected benefit payments 191 227 548 502 358 193 78 The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 17 years.
The Group made agreed contributions of 16m to the Group Scheme in 2014 15 2013 14: 15m.
A charge over certain assets of the Group has been Overseas schemes made as security for certain unfunded arrangements.
The Groups current best estimate of contributions expected to the Group Scheme in the year ending The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: 30 April 2016 is approximately 16m.
France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to employees after Significant actuarial assumptions completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement: Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: 2015 2014 Switzerland funded scheme, affiliated to a fully insured joint foundation: Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.5% 4.4% Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes: and Inflation 2.1% 2.3% Netherlands transitional arrangements on closure of defined benefit scheme.
Pre-retirement pension increases 1.9% 2.3% Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 2.2% 2.3% In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
Other employee benefits Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.8% 2.1% relate to pre-retirement benefits in Germany.
For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.2% 30 April 2014: 2.7% and an inflation rate Overseas schemes expose the Group to risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk, investment risk, life expectancy risk and of 1.4% 30 April 2014: 2.4%.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard mortality tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2015, the mortality base table used is S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2014 Movements in the liability for employee benefit plans obligations recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
At 30 April 2014 the mortality base table 2015 2014 m m used is S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2013 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,059 1,146 for future longevity improvement.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: Interest cost 43 41 2015 2014 Service cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 4 7 Male Female Male Female Member contributions 1 1 Life expectancy at age 65 Settlement curtailment 2 30 Member currently aged 65 21.5 23.9 21.4 23.8 Pension payments 40 41 Member currently aged 45 23.1 25.7 23.2 25.7 Unfunded benefits paid 6 1 Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 142 69 Actuarial gains losses experience 2 8 Actuarial losses demographic 6 1 Currency translation 12 4 Reclassification 9 Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,202 1,059 dssmith.
com 122 Financial Statements 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all other variables remain the same.
In practice, this approach is not necessarily realistic since some assumptions are related.
This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Increase in pension liability m 0.5% decrease in discount rate 93 0.5% increase in inflation 64 1 year increase in life expectancy 30 Expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement Total 2015 2014 m m Post-retirement benefits current service cost 3 5 Other employee benefit liabilities current service cost 1 2 Total service cost 4 7 Net interest cost on net pension liability 4 6 Pension Protection Fund levy 2 1 Employment benefit net finance expense 6 7 Total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 10 14 Items recognised in other comprehensive expense income Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation effect of change in financial assumptions 146 60 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 81 3 Total losses gains recognised in other comprehensive expense income 65 57 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: i A Performance Share Plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards have been made under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250: ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and iii.
average adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE.
Awards since 2010 are subject to three performance measures: i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and iii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
The 2010 and 2011 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 123 122 Financial Statements Financial Statements 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED ii The Substitute Share Bonus Award for Mr M W Roberts is subject to substantially the same terms as the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan see iii, Sensitivity analysis except that the vesting date was 1 September 2013.
The Substitute Share Bonus Award vested in full on the vesting date and has been fully exercised.
The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing the impact on Mr Roberts was entitled to a cash payment on vesting, representing a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on his vested shares the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all other variables remain the same.
while they were subject to his awards.
There were no performance conditions governing the vesting of the Substitute Share Bonus Award because the In practice, this approach is not necessarily realistic since some assumptions are related.
This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation awards they replicated had no performance conditions attaching to them.
only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Increase in iii A Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012 13, for senior executives.
Shares awarded under the Plan pension liability will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award.
m 0.5% decrease in discount rate 93 iv A Share Matching Plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13.
The award will vest after 0.5% increase in inflation 64 three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with 1 year increase in life expectancy 30 the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
No further awards under this Plan will be made subsequent to the 2014 15 award granted in July 2014.
Expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement v A Long-Term Incentive Plan LTI is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
The award will vest after three years Total subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of 2015 2014 m m grant.
Post-retirement benefits current service cost 3 5 vi A Sharesave Plan was introduced in the UK in January 2011.
All UK employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries were eligible to participate in Other employee benefit liabilities current service cost 1 2 this Plan.
Under this HMRC approved Plan options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three Total service cost 4 7 years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
Net interest cost on net pension liability 4 6 Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance Pension Protection Fund levy 2 1 conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan.
The first award under this Plan has now vested and has been fully exercised.
An international Employment benefit net finance expense 6 7 Sharesave Plan was introduced in January 2014.
The main provisions of this are the same as for the January 2011 Plan, subject to minor country specific Total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 10 14 variances.
A standard US Stock Purchase Plan, which received shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014.
US employees of the Group are eligible to participate in this Plan.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to $405 per month over a period Items recognised in other comprehensive expense income of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the day before grant.
Options cannot Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation effect of change in financial assumptions 146 60 normally be exercised until a minimum of two years has elapsed.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 81 3 to options granted under this Plan.
Total losses gains recognised in other comprehensive expense income 65 57 Full details of the awards described in i, ii, iii, iv and vi are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 78.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2015 were: The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: i A Performance Share Plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service and the Options outstanding Options exercisable satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards have been made Weighted average Weighted Weighted under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: remaining average average Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250: of shares range p years price p exercisable price p ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and Performance Share Plan 6,841,126 Nil 0.8 Nil 335,576 Nil Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,490,259 Nil 1.2 Nil Nil Nil iii.
Share Matching Plan 1,320,023 Nil 1.1 Nil Nil Nil Awards since 2010 are subject to three performance measures: Sharesave Plan 6,832,574 269.0 2.0 Nil Nil Nil i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and average Weighted Weighted remaining average average iii.
Option price contract life exercise Value exercise Value range p years price p exercisable price p The 2010 and 2011 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 3,117,573 Nil 1.8 Nil Nil Nil dssmith.
com 124 Financial Statements 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Performance Substitute Share Deferred Share Share Plan Bonus Award Bonus Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2015 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2014 Nil 7,164 Nil 116 Nil 1,244 Granted Nil 2,221 Nil Nil 552 Exercised Nil 2,443 Nil 116 Nil 306 Lapsed Nil 101 Nil Nil At 30 April 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil Nil 1,490 Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 336 Nil Nil Share Matching Sharesave Long-Term Term Plan Plan Incentive Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2015 continued price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2014 Nil 877 263.2 7,962 Nil 1,558 Granted Nil 443 Nil Nil 1,560 Exercised Nil 130.6 305 Nil Lapsed Nil 263.2 825 Nil At 30 April 2015 Nil 1,320 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 269.0 Nil Executive Share Replacement 2008 Option Scheme Performance Long-Term Replacement Deferred Recruitment 1999 Share Plan Incentive Plan Shares Award Award Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2014 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2013 103.7 112 Nil 11,511 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828 Granted Nil Nil 2,080 Nil Nil Nil Exercised 103.7 112 Nil 5,152 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828 Lapsed Nil Nil 1,275 Nil Nil Nil At 30 April 2014 Nil Nil 7,164 Nil Nil Nil Exercisable at 30 April 2014 Nil Nil 519 Nil Nil Nil Substitute Share Deferred Share Share Matching Sharesave Long-Term Term Bonus Award Bonus Plan Plan Plan Incentive Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2014 continued price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2013 Nil 116 Nil 1,095 Nil 520 119.2 5,854 Nil Granted Nil Nil 426 Nil 357 269.0 7,695 Nil 1,558 Exercised Nil Nil Nil 119.2 5,313 Nil Lapsed Nil Nil 277 Nil 119.2 274 Nil At 30 April 2014 Nil 116 Nil 1,244 Nil 877 263.2 7,962 Nil 1,558 Exercisable at 30 April 2014 Nil 116 Nil Nil 119.2 307 Nil Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 125 124 Financial Statements Financial Statements 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 306.2 pence 2013 14: 291.2 pence.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP, DSBP and SMP schemes.
Performance Substitute Share Deferred Share The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 3.7m.
The significant inputs into the model Share Plan Bonus Award Bonus Plan were: a share price of 263.6p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected initial volatility of the share price of 23.4% and Weighted Weighted Weighted long-term volatility of 28.8%: the scheme life disclosed above: an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.47% and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility average average average of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2015 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s from 1 January 1970.
At 1 May 2014 Nil 7,164 Nil 116 Nil 1,244 The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 5m 2013 14: 4m.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Lapsed Nil 101 Nil Nil 2015 2014 At 30 April 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil Nil 1,490 Continuing operations m m Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 336 Nil Nil Profit for the year 156 144 Adjustments for: Pre-tax SCA Packaging integration costs and other exceptional items 31 38 Share Matching Sharesave Long-Term Term Plan Plan Incentive Plan Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 55 51 Weighted Weighted Weighted Cash outflow for exceptional items 49 78 average average average Depreciation 117 123 exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options Profit on sale of non-current assets 8 8 2015 continued price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s Share of profit loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 7 3 At 1 May 2014 Nil 877 263.2 7,962 Nil 1,558 Employment benefit net finance expense 6 7 Granted Nil 443 Nil Nil 1,560 Share-based payment expense 5 4 Exercised Nil 130.6 305 Nil Finance income 3 3 Lapsed Nil 263.2 825 Nil Finance costs 39 44 At 30 April 2015 Nil 1,320 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 Other non-cash items including other deposits 7 8 Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 269.0 Nil Income tax expense 44 23 Change in provisions 15 21 Executive Share Replacement 2008 Change in employee benefits 16 13 Option Scheme Performance Long-Term Replacement Deferred Recruitment Cash generation before working capital movements 362 306 1999 Share Plan Incentive Plan Shares Award Award Changes in: Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Inventories 13 6 average average average average average Trade and other receivables 65 25 exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2014 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s Trade and other payables 49 34 At 1 May 2013 103.7 112 Nil 11,511 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828 Working capital movement 101 3 Granted Nil Nil 2,080 Nil Nil Nil Cash generated from continuing operations 463 309 Exercised 103.7 112 Nil 5,152 Nil 628 Nil 155 Nil 828 Includes gains on the sale of surplus property assets total 6m 2013 14: 5m.
Lapsed Nil Nil 1,275 Nil Nil Nil At 30 April 2014 Nil Nil 7,164 Nil Nil Nil Exercisable at 30 April 2014 Nil Nil 519 Nil Nil Nil Substitute Share Deferred Share Share Matching Sharesave Long-Term Term Bonus Award Bonus Plan Plan Plan Incentive Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2014 continued price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2013 Nil 116 Nil 1,095 Nil 520 119.2 5,854 Nil Granted Nil Nil 426 Nil 357 269.0 7,695 Nil 1,558 Exercised Nil Nil Nil 119.2 5,313 Nil Lapsed Nil Nil 277 Nil 119.2 274 Nil At 30 April 2014 Nil 116 Nil 1,244 Nil 877 263.2 7,962 Nil 1,558 Exercisable at 30 April 2014 Nil 116 Nil Nil 119.2 307 Nil dssmith.
com 126 Financial Statements 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 335 307 Depreciation 117 123 Adjusted EBITDA 452 430 Working capital movement 101 3 Change in provisions 15 21 Change in employee benefits 16 13 Other 4 5 Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 518 394 Capital expenditure 167 174 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 18 18 Tax paid 28 55 Net interest paid 34 43 Free cash flow 307 140 Cash outflow for exceptional items 49 78 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 94 74 Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 28 27 Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 18 12 Net cash flow 154 27 Proceeds from issue of share capital 6 Reclassification 9 Loans and borrowings acquired 30 Net movement on debt 115 21 Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 18 61 15 Net debt movement continuing operations 176 6 Net debt movement discontinued operations 4 Opening net debt 827 817 Closing net debt 651 827 29.
OPERATING LEASES Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2015 2014 m m Less than one year 27 20 Between one and five years 45 37 More than five years 11 11 83 68 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES At 30 April 2015, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of 3m 30 April 2014: 3m.
The Group is not subject to a material litigation but has a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries including, inter alia, intellectual property disputes and regulatory enquiries on areas such as health and safety, environmental, and anti-trust.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
As a result of previous acquisitions, various contingent liabilities were identified and included within provisions, as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been updated and included in the closing provision balance at 30 April 2015.
At the reporting date the Group had committed to the acquisition of the Duropack group subject to competition clearance.
Clearance was obtained on 31 May 2015.
See note 33 for further information.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 127 126 Financial Statements Financial Statements 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 31.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS 2015 2014 a 2014 15 acquisitions and disposals m m During the year ended 30 April 2015, the Group completed various business combination transactions with total cash consideration of 28m including Continuing operations 1m bank overdraft acquired, and various business disposals with total cash consideration of 18m which are not considered material to the Group Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 335 307 individually or in aggregate.
Depreciation 117 123 Adjusted EBITDA 452 430 b 2013 14 acquisitions and disposals Working capital movement 101 3 During the year ended 30 April 2014, the Group completed various business combination transactions with total cash consideration of 27m, Change in provisions 15 21 and various business disposals with total cash consideration of 12m which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
Change in employee benefits 16 13 c Acquisition related costs Other 4 5 The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 4m in 2014 15 2013 14: 4m.
In 2014 15 these primarily related to the acquisition of the Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 518 394 Andopack Group, the Duropack Group and Italmaceri, as well as other deal costs relating to reviewing potential acquisitions.
These costs have Capital expenditure 167 174 been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement within exceptional items.
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 18 18 Tax paid 28 55 32.
RELATED PARTIES Net interest paid 34 43 Identity of related parties Free cash flow 307 140 In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries and equity accounted investments.
Cash outflow for exceptional items 49 78 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 94 74 The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 28 27 management personnel can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Certain key management also participate in the Groups share-based incentive Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 18 12 programme note 26.
Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of 1m 2013 14: 1m relating to key management.
Net cash flow 154 27 Proceeds from issue of share capital 6 Other related party transactions Reclassification 9 2015 2014 m m Loans and borrowings acquired 30 Sales to equity accounted investees 3 35 Net movement on debt 115 21 Purchases from equity accounted investees 6 1 Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 18 61 15 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 2 10 Net debt movement continuing operations 176 6 Advances to minority interest 3 3 Net debt movement discontinued operations 4 Opening net debt 827 817 33.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Closing net debt 651 827 a Acquisition of Duropack 29.
OPERATING LEASES On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business.
The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack business for 305m on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
This is subject to customary post-completion adjustments.
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Duropack, a recycled corrugated board packaging business, has market-leading positions across south eastern Europe, holding the number one or two 2015 2014 m m position in many of the geographies in which it operates.
It is well invested with high quality assets and operates a short paper, long fibre model similar Less than one year 27 20 to that of the Group.
Between one and five years 45 37 The Group expects that this acquisition will improve its position in higher-growth south eastern European geographies, further strengthening pan-European More than five years 11 11 capabilities to our existing customer base in addition to providing access to new customers.
83 68 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
com 128 Financial Statements 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS CONTINUED a Acquisition of Duropack continued The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Duropack business and provisional carrying values of identifiable assets and liabilities.
The below values will be subject to a fair value review and finalised within a year of the acquisition date and retrospectively applied.
Provisional carrying values at acquisition m Property, plant and equipment 103 Other non-current assets 10 Current assets 91 Non-current liabilities 62 Current liabilities 46 Total identifiable net assets acquired 96 Goodwill 50 Total consideration 146 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 146 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 146 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 18 Total cash outflow 128 b Disposal of StePac On 18 May 2015 the Group completed the sale of StePac, classified as held for sale at 30 April 2015, for US$31m, subject to customary working capital adjustments.
This disposal is consistent with the Groups focus on investment and growth in consumer based packaging in strategic markets and will result in an exceptional gain in the forthcoming year.
c Other subsequent events There are no further events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 129 128 Financial Statements Financial Statements 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
DS SMITH GROUP COMPANIES a Acquisition of Duropack continued Control of the Group The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Duropack business and provisional carrying values of identifiable assets and liabilities.
The Groups ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
List of key consolidated companies Provisional Ownership carrying values at Country of interest at acquisition incorporation 30 April m or registration 2015 Property, plant and equipment 103 UK Other non-current assets 10 DS Smith Holdings Limited UK 100% Current assets 91 DS Smith Packaging Limited UK 100% Non-current liabilities 62 DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited UK 100% Current liabilities 46 DS Smith Paper Limited UK 100% Total identifiable net assets acquired 96 DS Smith Logistics Limited UK 100% Goodwill 50 DS Smith Recycling UK Limited UK 100% Western Europe Total consideration 146 DS Smith France S. A. S. France 100% Satisfied by: DS Smith Packaging France S. A. S. France 100% Cash consideration 146 Otor S. A. France 100% DS Smith Packaging Services S. A. S. France 100% DS Smith Packaging Consumer S. A. S. France 100% Net cash flow arising on acquisition DS Smith Chouanard S. A. S. France 100% Cash consideration 146 DS Smith Paper Kaysersberg S. A.
S France 100% Cash and cash equivalents acquired 18 Andorrana fide Cajas fide Cartn Ondulado S. A. Spain 100% Total cash outflow 128 DS Smith Packaging Netherlands B. V. Netherlands 100% DACH and Northern Europe b Disposal of StePac DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung & Co. KG Germany 100% On 18 May 2015 the Group completed the sale of StePac, classified as held for sale at 30 April 2015, for US$31m, subject to customary working capital DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% adjustments.
This disposal is consistent with the Groups focus on investment and growth in consumer based packaging in strategic markets and will DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% result in an exceptional gain in the forthcoming year.
DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S Denmark 100% DS Smith Packaging Sweden AB Sweden 100% c Other subsequent events Central Europe and Italy There are no further events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
z. o. o. Poland 100% Toscana Ondulati SpA Italy 92% DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA Italy 100% Plastics DS Smith Plastics Limited UK 100% DS Smith Cartn Plstico s. a. Spain 100% D. W. Plastics NV Belgium 100% DS Smith Ducaplast S. A. S. France 100% DSS Rapak Inc. USA 100% Rapak GmbH Germany 100% Rapak Asia Pacific Limited New Zealand 100% Indirectly held by DS Smith Plc.
A complete list of the Groups companies is available from the registered office and will be filed with the Annual Return.
