Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate those of Dunelm Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements on pages 108 to 116 present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRSIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and these are presented on pages 83 to 107.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
The annual financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for financial assets and financial liabilities, which have been stated at fair value.
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
Going concern The Group has considerable financial resources together with long standing relationships with a number of key suppliers and an established reputation in the retail sector across the UK.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Strategic Report and Business Review on pages 2 to 28.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 20 to 21.
In addition note 16 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Use of estimates and judgements The presentation of the annual financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The key estimates and judgements used in the financial statements are as follows: Inventory provisions The Group provides against the carrying value of the inventories held where it is anticipated that net realisable value NRV will be below costs.
NRV is calculated on the basis of current selling price and expected future price reductions.
Future price reductions in turn are assumed to be in line with the Groups standard approach to clearing discontinued and slow-moving inventory: and are applied to such proportion of inventory as deemed appropriate given the level of cover in relation to recent sales history, on a line by line basis.
Equity-settled share-based payments Certain employees and Directors of the Group receive equity-settled remuneration in the form of equity-settled share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value, determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, at the date at which an option is granted.
The inputs into the model for which estimate or judgement is used are volatility, dividend yield and risk free interest rate.
Volatility is measured at the standard deviation of share returns based on the daily share price over a period of time prior to the grant date.
The dividend yield used for each option is the prior years yield.
This is calculated using the prior years dividends, excluding special dividends, divided by the year end closing share price.
The five year UK gilts yield on the day of the grant is taken as the risk free interest rate.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the non-market vesting conditions are expected to be fulfilled, ending on the relevant vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date is adjusted to reflect the Directors best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest based upon non-market conditions.
It is not considered likely that any change in assumptions with respect to share-based payments would have a material impact on the financial statements.
com Stock code: DNLM 88 FINANCIALS Heading Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Consistent accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
Revenue Revenue is generated from the sale of homewares through the Groups stores and website, and small amounts of related services such as the Dunelm at home consultants.
Revenue therefore represents the proceeds from sales of goods and related services, excluding sales between Group companies and is after deducting returns, discounts given and VAT.
Revenue is recognised when risk and reward passes to the customer, which is at the point of sale with the exception of custom made products, where revenue is recognised at the point that the goods are collected, and gift vouchers, where revenue is recognised when the vouchers are redeemed.
Revenue is settled in cash at the point of sale.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Intangible assets These comprise software development and implementation costs and trademarks and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below.
Costs incurred in developing the Groups own brands are expensed as incurred.
Separately acquired trademarks are shown at historical cost.
Trademarks have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks over their estimated useful lives.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: X it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use: X management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it: X there is an ability to use or sell the software product: X it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits: X adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available: and X the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
These are as follows: software development and licences 3 years trademarks 5 years Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 89 Accounting Policies CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchased price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working conditions for intended use.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: computer equipment 3 years freehold buildings 50 years fixtures and fittings 4 years motor vehicles 4 years office equipment 5 years plant and machinery 4 years leasehold improvements over the period of the lease The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Current assets Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment provisions.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is derived using the average cost method and includes costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to sell in the ordinary course of business.
Provisions are made for obsolete, slow-moving or discontinued stock.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities and as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Bank borrowings and borrowing costs Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at their fair value.
Transaction costs incurred are amortised over 48 months.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments used are forward exchange contracts and are measured at fair value.
The fair values are determined by reference to the market prices available from the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
Cash flow hedges are instruments that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecasted transaction.
For cash flow hedges that proportion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, directly in the hedge reserve with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
The gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedge cash flows affect the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
com Stock code: DNLM 90 FINANCIALS Heading Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time-value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Share capital Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly attributable incremental transactions costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A provision for onerous contracts, including property leases, is recognised when the expected benefit to be derived by the Group from a contract is lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is an expectation of future obligations relating to the maintenance of leasehold properties arising from events such as lease renewals or terminations.
Expenses Property leases Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement evenly over the full term of the lease.
Where leases for land and buildings provide for fixed rent review dates and amounts, the Group financial statements for such reviews by recognising, on a straight-line basis, the total implicit minimum lease payments over the non-cancellable period of the lease term.
Financing income expense Financing income expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Retirement benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan using a third-party provider.
Obligations for the contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Share-based payment transactions The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: X including any market performance conditions: for example, an entitys share price : X excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and X including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 91 Accounting Policies CONTINUED In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company either issues new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
For issued new shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be recognised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
New standards and interpretations There are no new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations which are effective for the first time during the period ended 4 July 2015 that have a material impact on the Group.
At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, which is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has not early-adopted any of these new standards or amendments to existing standards.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
