Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Disclosure of information to auditors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Corporate Governance Report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors X the Group financial statements, which have been prepared have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under profit of the Group: and company law the Directors must not approve the financial X the strategy report contained includes a fair review of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and development and performance of the business and the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company position of the Group, together with a description of the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: In the case of each Director in ofce at the date the Directors report is approved, it is confirmed that: X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: a. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit X make judgements and accounting estimates that are information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and reasonable and prudent: X state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the b. he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have European Union have been followed, subject to any taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware material departures disclosed and explained in the financial of any relevant audit information and to establish that the statements: Companys auditors are aware of that information.
X prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
