com 123 Glossary Adjusted capital employed Capital employed plus seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Adjusted net cash debt Net cash debt less seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Aircraft dry Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
wet leasing Payments to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
Aircraft owned leased Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end at end of year of the period.
Available seat kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average adjusted The average of opening and closing adjusted capital employed.
capital employed Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Capital employed Shareholders equity less net cash debt.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of aircraft held for sale.
Gearing Adjusted net cash debt divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net cash debt.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Net cash debt Total cash less borrowings.
Cash includes money market deposits but excludes restricted cash.
Normalised operating Reported operating profit adjusted for one-third of operating lease costs incurred in the year, less profit after tax tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including noshows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Revenue The sum of seat revenue and non-seat revenue.
Revenue passenger Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
kilometres RPK Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
ROCE Return on capital employed.
ROCE excluding Operating profit, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year, lease adjustments divided by average capital employed.
ROCE including Normalised operating profit after tax divided by average adjusted capital employed.
lease adjustments Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
124 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 124 Thank you Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Adle Anderson, Lisa Ball, Michael Barker, Meena Bhatia-Ahir, Mita Bhattacharjee, Maxwell Bruce, Gail Butler, Phil Chastell, Andrew Findlay, James Fisher, Terri Francis, Matt Garner, Val Goldine, Bill Gosbee, Pamela Harrison, Michael Hargitay, Stuart Knapp, Bruce James, Mark Johnston, Nick Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Mark Lovatt, Brian Madiyiko, Carolyn McCall OBE, Paul Moore, Stuart Morgan, Kyla Mullins, Matthew Newman, Claire Oliver, Emma Papworth, Fatima Parkar, Mark Ramsden, Mark Rouessart, Barry Russell, Zarina Sabir, Ben Souter, Ian Southerland, Jade Steele, Andrew Tempest, Eunice Ten, Brian Timms, Hayley Thomas, Huw Thomas, Ed Thompson, Claire Walker, Geoff Want, Emile Warder, Charlotte Warner, Charles Whitehouse, Anna Wilshire, Andrew Winterton and all of our employees across the network.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified: its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Lumi Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
This report is available at: Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc http: corporate.
com Annual report and accounts 2015 Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
