Strategic report Governance Accounts Notes to the company accounts a Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company accounts are the same as those set out in note 1 to the consolidated accounts with the addition of the following.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for sharebased payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders equity.
b Income statement and statement of total comprehensive income In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Companys profit for the year was 221 million 2014: 667 million.
Included in this amount are cash dividends received of 199 million 2014: 650 million in-specie, which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year, other than the profit for each year.
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2015 2014: ten.
These are the Non-Executive Directors of easyJet plc: their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated accounts and in the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 80. c Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 2015 2014 million million At 1 October 309 286 Capital contributions to subsidiaries 18 23 Allotment and issue of shares by subsidiaries 551 At 30 September 878 309 A full list of Group companies are detailed below.
Percentage of ordinary Country of incorporation Principal activity shares held easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100 easyJet Switzerland S. A. Switzerland Airline operator 49 Dawn Licensing Holdings Limited Malta Holding company 100 Dawn Licensing Limited Malta Graphic design 100 1 easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 1 easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 1 Although these companies are Cayman Islands incorporated they have always been, and continue to be, UK tax resident.
The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S. A. with an option that expires in 2016 to acquire the remaining 51%.
easyJet Switzerland S. A. is a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the consolidated accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined minimal consideration.
com 121 Notes to the company accounts continued d Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations 2015 2014 million million Profit for the year 221 667 Adjustments for: Finance and other similar income 15 12 Unrealised foreign exchange differences 12 10 Tax charge 5 5 Dividends received 199 650 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital Changes in working capital: Decrease in tax recoverable 10 Increase decrease in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 35 538 Decrease in amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 253 35 295 e Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its operating licence under Regulation 3 of the Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992.
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the processing of credit card transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited and easyJet Leasing Limited, both subsidiary undertakings, in respect of its contractual obligations to Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft.
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit issued on behalf of subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in respect of a $500m revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility was agreed during the year ended 30 September 2015, for a minimum of five years, and was undrawn at 30 September 2015.
No amount is recognised on the Company statement of financial position in respect to any of these guarantees as it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources f Related party transactions Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an arms length basis.
Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and bear market rates of interest.
For full details of transactions and arrangements with easyJets largest shareholder, see note 26 of the consolidated accounts.
122 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 122
