DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration with applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the are required to prepare the Consolidated financial statements in corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of have elected to prepare the Parent company financial statements in financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The directors, all of whom are shown on pages 26 and 27, confirm that to Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial the best of their knowledge: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, company financial statements, the directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The management report includes a fair review of the development and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the For the Consolidated financial statements, state whether they have undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material By order of the Board departures disclosed and explained in the Parent company financial statements.
Brian Taylorson The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Finance Director that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions 1 March 2016 and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
54 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015
