Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company Iaw the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the currently serving Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 44 to 46, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit loss of the Group and Company: and the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
com Stock Code: ECM 90 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Simon Boddie Group Finance Director 21 May 2015 The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 91 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
