NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ELEMENTIS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 1.
General information Taxation Elementis plc is a public company limited by shares and is incorporated Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered office is 1st Floor, amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Caroline House, 55-57 High Holborn, London, WC1V 6DX.
The principal amounts used for taxation purposes.
Advance corporation tax activity of the Company is to act as an investment and holding company.
recoverable by deduction from future corporation tax is carried forward within deferred taxation or as ACT recoverable within debtors as 2.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in compliance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards, including Financial Share based payments Reporting Standard 101- Reduced disclosure framework - Disclosure The fair value of share options granted to employees is recognised as an exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS for qualifying entities FRS 101, and expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where the Company with the Companies Act.
This is the first year the Company has presented grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it its results under FRS 101.
The last financial statements under the UK recognises in its individual financial statements an increase in the cost of GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2014. investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries financial statements, with 3.
Transition to FRS 101 the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value The date of transition to FRS 101 was 31 December 2013.
Having is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the considered the Companys ability to recover any deferred tax assets that employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value might be associated with the share option reserve, it was determined that of the options granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into it would not be appropriate to recognise such an asset.
As such, there are account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
no reconciling items between the previously disclosed accounts for 2014 The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual and the restated accounts prepared under FRS 101.
The transition to FRS number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to 101 has not affected the reported financial position and financial share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
As such no equity reconciliations between UK GAAP and FRS 101 at the transition and comparative dates have been presented.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity only As a qualifying entity whose results are consolidated in the Elementis plc tothe extent that they meet the following two conditions: consolidated financial statements on pages 58 to 89, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemption requirements of FRS 101 a. T hey include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver regarding the requirement to prepare a statement of cash flows and cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or certain financial instrument, share based pay and key management financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are personnel compensation disclosures.
potentially unfavourable to the Company.
Summary of significant accounting policies b.
Where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys The Company has adopted FRS 101 in these financial statements.
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange To the extent that the definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Investments Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part Investments in Group undertakings are included in the balance sheet at of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with cost less impairment.
financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders funds, are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in Dividends on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividends shareholders funds.
unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer 5.
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders at the discretion of the Company.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
A profit of 225.2 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits million 2014: 2.2 million loss, including dividend income of 216.7 million The Company participates in the Elementis Group defined benefit pension 2014: nil is dealt with in the financial statements of the Company.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
Details of the latest actuarial valuation carried out as at 6.
Directors remuneration September 2014 can be found in the 2015 Elementis plc Annual report Details of directors remuneration for the Company are included in the and accounts.
Following the introduction of the revised reporting Directors remuneration report within the Elementis plc Annual report and standard, any surplus or deficit in the Elementis Group defined benefit accounts on pages 35 to 51. pension scheme is to be reported in the financial statements of Elementis Holdings Ltd, which employs the majority of active members of the scheme and is responsible for making deficit contributions under the current funding plan.
92 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 7.
Investments Unlisted Unlisted Capital shares at cost loans contributions Total million million million million Cost at 1 January 2015 0.1 759.0 5.7 764.8 Additions 1.4 1.4 Net book value 31 December 2015 0.1 759.0 7.1 766.2 Net book value 31 December 2014 0.1 759.0 5.7 764.8 The investment in unlisted loans is with Elementis Holdings Limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary.
The investments in unlisted shares are in Elementis Group BV and Elementis Overseas Investments Limited, both wholly owned subsidiaries.
Capital contributions relate to share-based payment awards made to employees of subsidiary companies.
The principal trading subsidiaries of Elementis plc, all of which are wholly owned, are as follows: Country of incorporation Subsidiary undertakings and operation Deuchem Co. Ltd Additives and resins Taiwan Additives and resins Peoples Republic of China Deuchem HK Trading Co Ltd Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Additives and resins Deuchem Shanghai Chemical Co. Ltd Peoples Republic of China Elementis Chromium Inc Chromium chemicals United States of America Elementis Chromium LLP Chromium chemicals United Kingdom Elementis Deuchem Shanghai Chemical Ltd Additives and resins Peoples Republic of China Elementis LTP Inc Chromium chemicals United States of America Elementis Specialties Anji Ltd Organoclays Peoples Republic of China Elementis Specialties Changxing Ltd Organoclays Peoples Republic of China Elementis Specialties do Brasil Quimica Ltda Coatings additives Brazil Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, United States of America Elementis Specialties Inc other specialty additives Elementis Specialties Netherlands BV Surfactants and coatings additives The Netherlands United Kingdom Elementis UK Limited trading as: Rheological additives, colourants, waxes, Elementis Specialties other specialty additives Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 93 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ELEMENTIS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONTINUED 7.
Investments continued Non-trading and dormant subsidiaries of Elementis plc, all of which are wholly owned within the group, are as follows: Agrichrome Ltd Dormant United Kingdom American Chrome & Chemicals Inc Dormant United States of America Deuchem Holding Inc Dormant Samoa Deuchem International Inc Dormant Samoa Elementis America Shared Services Inc Dormant United States of America Elementis Australia Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Elementis Benelux NV Non-trading in liquidation Belgium Elementis BV Dormant Netherlands Elementis Catalysts Inc Dormant United States of America Elementis Chemicals Inc Dormant United States of America Elementis Chromium America Inc Dormant United States of America Elementis Finance Australia Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Elementis Finance Germany Ltd Dormant Germany Elementis Finance Ireland Ltd Non-trading Ireland Elementis Finance US Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis Germany GmbH Dormant Germany Elementis Germany Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Elementis Global LLC Non-trading United States of America Elementis GmbH Non-trading Germany Elementis Group Finance Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis Group BV Non-trading Netherlands Elementis Group Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis Holdings Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis London Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Elementis Nederland BV Non-trading Netherlands Elementis New Zealand Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Elementis NZ Ltd Dormant New Zealand Elementis Overseas Investments Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis Pigments Inc Dormant United States of America Elementis S. E. A. Malaysia Sdn Bhd Non-trading Malaysia Elementis Securities Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom Elementis Service Centre NV Non-trading Belgium Elementis Services GmbH Non-trading Germany Elementis Specialties India Private Ltd Non-trading India Elementis US Holdings Inc Non-trading United States of America Elementis US Ltd Non-trading United Kingdom H & C Acquisitions Ltd Dormant United Kingdom H & C Lumber Inc Dormant United States of America Harcros Chemicals Canada Inc Dormant Canada Iron Oxides s. a. fide.
CV Dormant Mexico NB Chrome Ltd Dormant United Kingdom Notes: Other than Elementis Group BV and Elementis Overseas Investments Ltd, none of the undertakings are held directly by the Company.
Equity capital is in ordinary shares and voting rights equate to equity ownership.
All undertakings listed above, with the exception of Elementis Specialties India Private Ltd for which the relevant date is 31 March, have accounting periods ending 31 December.
Undertakings operating in the United Kingdom are incorporated in England and Wales.
In the case of corporate undertakings other than in the United Kingdom their country of operation is also their country of incorporation.
All undertakings listed above have been included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year.
94 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 8.
Debtors 2015 2014 million million Group relief receivable 12.7 1.2 9.
Creditors: amount falling due within one year 2015 2014 million million Accruals and deferred income 0.6 0.6 10.
Called up share capital 2015 2014 Number 2015 Number 2014 000 million 000 million Called-up allotted and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 5 pence each At 1 January 461,637 23.1 458,831 22.9 Issue of shares 1,339 2,806 0.2 At 31 December 462,976 23.1 461,637 23.1 During the year a total of 1,338,974 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 66,949 were allotted and issued for cash to various employees at subscription prices between nil pence and 228 pence on the exercise of options under the Groups share option schemes.
The total subscription monies received by the Company for these shares was 1.1 million.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Related party transactions The Company is a guarantor to the Elementis Group defined benefit pension scheme under which it guarantees all current and future obligations of UK subsidiaries currently participating in the pension scheme to make payments to the scheme, up to a specified maximum amount.
The maximum amount of the guarantee is that which is needed at the time the guarantee is called on to bring the schemes funding level up to 105 per cent of its liabilities, calculated in accordance with section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004.
This is also sometimes known as a Pension Protection Fund PPF guarantee, as having such a guarantee in place reduces the annual PPF levy on the scheme.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 95
