152 Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice is important and requires your immediate attention.
To authorise the Directors generally and unconditionally pursuant If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and grant solicitor, accountant or other independent adviser duly authorised rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. the Company together relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,432,957.24 comprising: The 2016 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc the Company will be held at the offices of the Company, a an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62 whether in 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at connection with the same offer or issue as under b below 11.00 a. m. on 11 February 2016 for the following purposes: or otherwise : and b an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62, in the form Ordinary Resolutions of equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, which of the Companies Act 2006 in connection with an offer or will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: issue by way of rights, open for acceptance for a period 1.
To receive the Directors reports and the audited accounts for the fixed by the Directors, to holders of ordinary shares other year ended 30 September 2015 and the Auditors report on the than the Company on the register on any record date fixed accounts.
by the Directors in proportion as nearly as may be to the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year respective number of ordinary shares deemed to be held by ended 30 September 2015 other than the part containing the them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as Directors Remuneration Policy.
the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, 2015. such authority to expire unless renewed, varied or revoked by 4.
To re-elect Robert Walker as a director.
the Company in general meeting on the earlier of fifteen months 5.
To re-elect Simon Townsend as a director.
from the date this resolution is passed and the conclusion of 6.
To re-elect Neil Smith as a director.
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, except that the Company may before such expiry make any offer 7.
To re-elect David Maloney as a director.
or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to 8.
To re-elect Peter Baguley as a director.
be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant 9.
To re-elect Adam Fowle as a director.
securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such 10.
To re-appoint Marisa Cassoni as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company, 14.
That the amendments to the rules of the Enterprise Inns 2015 to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2015 LTIP as shown in the Meeting of the Company.
marked-up version of the rules of the 2015 LTIP produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of 12.
To authorise the Directors to determine Ernst & Young LLPs identification be and are approved and the Directors be and are remuneration as auditor of the Company.
authorised to adopt the amendments and do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to give effect to them.
indd 152 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 153 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting 16.
To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally to make Special Resolutions market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the Companies To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, which Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 2 pence each provided that will be proposed as special resolutions: in doing so it: 15.
To empower the Directors pursuant to section 570 of the a purchases no more than 75,846,017 ordinary shares of 2 Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in pence each in aggregate: section 560 1 of that Act for cash pursuant to the general b pays not less than 2 pence excluding expenses per authority conferred on them by resolution 13 above and or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to ordinary share of 2 pence each: and section 727 of that Act, in each case as if section 561 1 of that c pays a price per share that is not more excluding expenses Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this per ordinary share than the higher of: i 5% above the power shall be limited to: average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily a any such allotment and or sale of equity securities in Official List for the five business days immediately before connection with an offer or issue by way of rights or other the day on which it purchases that share: and ii the price pre-emptive offer or issue, open for acceptance for a period stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation fixed by the Directors, to holders of ordinary shares other Regulation EC 2273 2003 or as the case may be EU than the Company on the register on any record date fixed Commission-adopted Regulatory Technical Standards by the Directors in proportion as nearly as may be to the pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation.
respective number of ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as This authority shall expire fifteen months after the date of the the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory except that the Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and shares under this authority before it expires, complete the purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above, of equity securities having an aggregate 17.
To authorise the Directors to call a general meeting of the nominal amount or, in the case of other equity securities, Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less giving the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant than 14 clear days notice.
shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not exceeding The Directors believe that the proposals in resolutions 1 to 17 the sum of 1,389,943.59. are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and they This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked or renewed unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general resolutions.
authority conferred on the Directors by resolution 13 above On behalf of the Board expires, except that the Company may at any time before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might L T ogher require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held Company Secretary as treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities held as 7 December 2015 treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if Registered office: the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
3 Monkspath Hall Road Solihull West Midlands B90 4SJ Registered in England and Wales No.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 153 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 154 Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1.
A member who is an individual is entitled to attend, speak and someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General vote at the meeting or to appoint one or more other persons as Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights on his behalf.
Further right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such details of how to appoint a proxy, and the rights of proxies, are agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as given in the paragraphs below.
A member that is a company to the exercise of voting rights.
can appoint one or more corporate representatives such as a 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the director or employee of the company whose attendance at the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above does meeting is treated as if the company were attending in person, not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these or it can appoint one or more persons as its proxy to exercise paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the all or any of its rights on its behalf.
In each case, a person Company.
attending the meeting will need to provide the Company or its 8.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, with evidence Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those of their identity and, if applicable, their appointment as a proxy shareholders included in the register of members of the or corporate representative with authority to vote on behalf of a Company at 6.00 p. m. on 9 February 2016 or, if the meeting is member.
adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day 2.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the which is two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual General Meeting to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6.00 the Company.
To appoint a proxy or proxies, shareholders must p. m. on 9 February 2016, or, if the meeting is adjourned, in the complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, together with register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two days the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it before the day of any adjourned meeting, will be disregarded is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to the in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Annual General Meeting.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY: or b a CREST 9.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 7 December 2015, the Companys issued Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 11 below : or c an share capital comprised 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 online proxy appointment at www.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a you will need to enter the Control Number, together with your general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number printed on your of voting rights in the Company as at 9.00 a. m. on 7 December personalised form of proxy, in each case so that it is received no 2015 is 555,977,435.
After excluding treasury shares, which later than 11.00 a. m. on 9 February 2016.
To appoint more than cannot be voted, the total number of voting rights in the company one proxy, you will need to complete a separate proxy form in as at 9.00 a. m. on 7 December 2015 is 505,977,435. relation to each appointment.
A personalised form of proxy for 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through use in connection with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so with this document.
If you do not have a personalised form of for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s of the proxy and believe that you should, please contact the Companys meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0370 889 available via www.
CREST personal 4080 or at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, members or other CREST sponsored members, and those Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY.
CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, 3.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the number of should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, shares in relation to which the proxy is appointed.
A failure to who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
specify the number of shares each proxy appointment relates to, 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the or specifying a number of shares in excess of those held by the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a member, will result in the proxy appointment being invalid.
CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in 4.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 11 below and must contain the information required for such instruction, will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an 5.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is received by the Companys agent ID 3RA50, by the latest time determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders for receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 2 above.
appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the 6.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have the appointee through other means.
indd 154 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 155 for the year ended 30 September 2015 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 15.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & in the Company, please forward this Annual Report and Accounts Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member 16.
The service agreements of the executive directors and copies concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are member, or sponsored member, or has appointed any voting available for inspection during normal business hours on any service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to the registered office of the Company and will be available for ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Annual system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST General Meeting.
members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting 17.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of Notice, or any related documents including the proxy form, to the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST communicate with the Company for any purposes other than system and timings.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members 18.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
have the right to require the Company to publish on a website enterpriseinns.
a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
indd 155 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
