156 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to she should be re-appointed are included in the Governance Report in be held on 11 February 2016 is set out on pages 152 to 153 of the Annual Report and Accounts, starting at page 46. the Annual Report and Accounts.
The following notes provide an Resolution 11 Auditors re-appointment explanation as to why the resolutions set out in the Notice are to The Companies Act 2006 requires that an auditor is appointed at each be put to shareholders.
general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold office until the Resolutions 1 to 14 are ordinary resolutions.
These resolutions next such meeting.
The resolution seeks shareholder approval for the will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast for or against re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee keeps are in favour.
under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, further information on which can be found in the Annual Report and Resolution 1 Laying of accounts Accounts on pages 54 and 55.
After considering relevant information, The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to present to the the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young shareholders of the Company at a general meeting the reports of the LLP be re-appointed.
Directors and Auditor, and the audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The reports of the Directors and the Resolution 12 Auditors remuneration audited accounts have been approved by the Directors, and the report This resolution gives the Directors the authority to determine the of the auditor has been approved by the auditor, and a copy of each of remuneration of the Auditor for the audit work to be carried out by these documents may be found in the Annual Report and Accounts.
them in the next financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to the Auditor for the next financial year will be disclosed in the next Resolutions 2 and 3 Directors Remuneration audited accounts of the Company.
Report and Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Report is now divided into two parts: Resolution 13 Authority to the directors to allot 1 an annual statement, which is shown on pages 59 to 62 of the shares Annual Report and Accounts, and an annual report on remuneration, The Companies Act 2006 provides that the Directors may only allot which starts at page 72 of the Annual Report and Accounts together shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
Resolution 13 will, if the annual remuneration report, and 2 where a vote on the passed, authorise the Directors to allot shares and to grant rights remuneration policy is proposed, the proposed directors remuneration to subscribe for, or convert securities into, shares up to a maximum policy the remuneration policy starts at page 62 of the Annual nominal amount of 8,432,957.24, which represents an amount which Report and Accounts.
is approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to seek shareholder capital of the Company as at 7 December 2015 excluding treasury approval of the annual remuneration report on an annual basis.
This is shares, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the sought in resolution 2.
The Company did not issue any shares during the period under review but, pursuant to the terms of convertible bonds previously The Companies Act 2006 also now requires the Company to have issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, it has agreed to received shareholder approval of a remuneration policy for its issue up to 50,800,000 shares on conversion of the bonds.
This is a binding policy and, after it takes effect, the Directors will not be entitled to remuneration unless such remuneration is As provided in paragraph a of the resolution, up to half of this consistent with the approved policy from time to time or shareholders authority equal to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of otherwise approve the remuneration.
The Company obtained the Company will enable the directors to allot and issue new shares shareholder approval for a policy at its AGM in February 2015 and in whatever manner subject to pre-emption rights they see fit.
while, ordinarily, it would not need to seek fresh approval from its Paragraph b of the resolution provides that the remainder of the shareholders for its policy until its AGM in February 2018, the review authority equal to a further one-third of the issued ordinary share of remuneration policy for the directors which has occurred over the capital of the Company may only be used in connection with a rights past year, has led the Company to propose a new remuneration policy issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
As paragraph a imposes no for its directors.
Approval of the new policy is sought in resolution 3 restrictions on the way the authority may be exercised, it could be and, if approved, the policy will take effect from the end of the AGM used in conjunction with paragraph b so as to enable the whole twoand will replace the policy approved by shareholders in February 2015. thirds authority to be used in connection with a rights issue.
The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that is fifteen months Resolutions 49 Re-election of directors after the date of the passing of the resolution and the conclusion of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Directors of the Company will stand for re-election.
Biographical information for the Directors is shown on pages 44 and 45 of the Passing resolution 13 will ensure that the Directors continue to Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of why the Board believes have the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when that the relevant directors should be re-elected are included in the opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
There are no current plans Governance Report in the Annual Report and Accounts, starting at to issue new shares except in connection with employee share page 46. schemes and on conversion of the bonds.
As at 7 December 2015, the latest practicable date prior to the Resolution 10 Director appointed since the publication of the Notice, the Company had 555,977,435 ordinary last Annual General Meeting shares of 2 pence each in issue and held 50,000,000 treasury The Companys Articles of Association require that directors appointed shares, which is equal to approximately 9.88% of the issued share by the Board must seek re-appointment at the next following AGM.
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
Accordingly, Marisa Cassoni is retiring and is seeking re-appointment.
Biographical information for Marisa Cassoni is shown on page 44 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of why the Board believes Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 156 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 157 for the year ended 30 September 2015 with the flexibility to raise further equity funding and to pursue Resolution 14 Approval of amendments to the acquisition opportunities as and when they arise.
The other part of the Enterprise Inns 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan authority disapplies statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, the 2015 LTIP regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other The Company obtained shareholder approval for the 2015 LTIP at its pre-emptive offer or issue.
For example, the Company having to offer AGM in February 2015.
As referred to in the Directors Remuneration shares to shareholders in certain jurisdictions can result in significant Report set out on pages 59 to 82 of the Annual Report and Accounts, compliance obligations and compliance with such obligations may be the Company is proposing amendments to its Directors Remuneration time consuming and costly.
If resolution 15 is passed, this authority Policy and shareholder approval for a revised policy is sought at the will expire at the same time as the authority to allot shares given Annual General Meeting as referred to in resolution 3.
To reflect the pursuant to resolution 13. revised Directors Remuneration Policy, it is proposed that amendments The directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them are made to the 2015 LTIP.
The rules of the 2015 LTIP marked-up to flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the show the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the restrictions contained in the resolution.
office of Deloitte LLP Company Secretarial Department, 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Resolution 16 Purchase of own shares by the public holidays excluded until the close of the Annual General Meeting, Company and will also be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for If passed, this resolution will grant the Company authority for a period at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
The amendments of up to fifteen months after the date of passing of the resolution to proposed are to the individual limit on participation, as follows.
buy its own shares in the market.
The resolution limits the number of shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issued Current share capital excluding treasury shares as at 7 December 2015, the individual limit latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice.
The price on participation Proposed individual limit on participation per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at a minimum Awards may not In respect of the Companys 2015 2016 financial amount excluding expenses of 2 pence per ordinary share and a be granted to year, awards may be granted to a participant over maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher of: i 5% over a participant in shares with a market value as determined by the the average of the previous five business days middle market prices: respect of any Remuneration Committee of up to 175% of salary.
and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the financial year In respect of each of the Companys 2016 2017 highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the over shares with purchase is carried out.
This authority will only be exercised if market financial year and the Companys 2017 2018 financial a market value conditions make it advantageous to do so.
year, a participant may be granted awards over a as determined number of shares equal to the maximum number The Directors present intention is that shares purchased pursuant to by the of shares over which he could have been granted this authority will be cancelled immediately on purchase.
Alternatively, Remuneration an award in respect of the 2015 2016 financial the shares may be held in treasury, sold for cash or provided Listing Committee in year.
This number of shares may be adjusted by Rule requirements are met transferred to an employees share excess of 150% the Remuneration Committee in the event of any scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of salary.
variation of the Companys share capital, demerger of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares or other similar event which, in the opinion of the are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry no Remuneration Committee, affects the market value voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The Directors will only make purchases under this authority if they believe that the effect of of a share.
such purchases where such shares are purchased for cancellation Resolutions 1517 are special resolutions.
These resolutions will would result in increased earnings per share, and would be in the be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast for or against are interests of the shareholders generally.
As at 7 December 2015, the latest practicable date prior to the Resolution 15 Partial disapplication of publication of the Notice, the total number of options to subscribe statutory pre-emption rights for ordinary shares of 2 pence each in the Company was 7,340,638, representing approximately 1.45% of the issued share capital of the The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company issues new Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the proposed shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them market purchase authority were to be used in full and all of the to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
It is repurchased ordinary shares were cancelled but the Companys proposed that the directors be authorised to issue shares for cash issued share capital otherwise remained unaltered, the total number and or sell shares from treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount of options to subscribe for ordinary shares at that date would of 1,389,943.59 representing approximately 10% of the Companys represent approximately 1.71% of the Companys issued share capital issued ordinary capital as at 7 December 2015, the latest practicable excluding treasury shares.
date prior to the publication of this Notice without offering them to shareholders first.
In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Resolution 17 Approving the notice period for Statement of Principles, the directors confirm that, to the extent that General Meetings this part of the authority is used for an issue of shares representing In order to maintain its ability to call general meetings other than an more than 5% of the Companys issued share capital at that date, the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice, the Company must directors intend that such authority will only be used in connection offer all shareholders the ability to appoint a proxy electronically via with an acquisition or specified capital investment that is announced the website of the Company or its registrars and must obtain the contemporaneously with the issue, or that has taken place in the approval of its shareholders by means of a special resolution passed preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of each year.
It is intended that a the issue.
This part of the authority is designed to provide the directors similar resolution will be proposed at future Annual General Meetings.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 157 07 12 2015 17:25:00 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
