COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES A. Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101 The Parent Company Financial Statements of Essentra plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2016 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Colin Day and Stefan Schellinger.
Essentra plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The Company transitioned to FRS 101 from the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice during the year ended 31 December 2015.
No adjustments were required as part of this transition.
In these Financial Statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: the requirements of paragraph 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64 b, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, B64 j to B64 m, b64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 q ii, B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations: the requirement of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: the requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1, paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible Assets: the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member: and the requirements of paragraphs 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated Financial Statements.
The following principal accounting policies have been consistently applied.
C. Investment in subsidiary undertaking Investment in subsidiary undertaking is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether the investment in its subsidiary has been impaired.
D. Share-based payments The fair value of share options is measured at grant date.
It is recognised as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the expected period between grant and vesting date of the options, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves.
Detailed disclosures for the share-based payment arrangements of the Company are provided in note 17 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM E. Own shares The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share incentive plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares is also deducted from retained earnings.
F. Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid interim dividend.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
G. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Exchange differences arising from movements in spot rates are included in the profit and loss account as exchange gains or losses, while those arising from the interest differential elements of forward currency contracts are included in external interest income or expense.
H. Financial assets Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as non-current assets.
The Companys loans and receivables comprise receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Interest income is recognised accordingly using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in profit or loss over the term of the borrowings.
The Company holds financial instruments which hedge the net investments in the foreign operations of its subsidiary undertakings.
Gains and losses on these instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account of the Company.
Taxation Income tax in the profit and loss account comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the profit and loss account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
