84 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 2011 now contains 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies General information requirements relating only to separate financial statements as the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company new IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements addresses the incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
requirements for consolidated financial statements.
The amendments do not have an effect on these consolidated financial statements.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity account includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to the groups interest in associates and joint ventures.
The parent company be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
The amendments financial statements present information about the entity and not about do not have an effect on these consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities provide clarification on the application of offsetting rules The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by relating to financial assets and financial liabilities.
The amendments the directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting do not have a significant effect on these consolidated financial Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, statements.
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected Amendments to IFRS 10, 11, and 12 on transition guidance clarify the to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with date of initial application in IFRS 10, and provide relief in IFRS 11 and UK GAAP.
12 from the presentation or adjustment of comparative information for periods prior to the immediately preceding period.
The The loan repaid to received from DMGT group company in the 2014 amendments do not have a significant effect on these consolidated Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been re-presented to show financial statements.
the allowable netting of the drawdowns and repayment of amounts from Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 on Consolidation for a committed facility with DMGT group company.
Investment Entities define an investment entity and introduce an The 2014 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position has been exception to consolidating particular subsidiaries for investment re-presented to reflect a reclassification to net down certain balances entities.
The amendments do not have an effect on these consolidated within trade receivables of 8.5m, accrued income of 3.9m and deferred financial statements.
This has a corresponding impact on the working Amendments to IAS 36 on Recoverable Amount Disclosures for capital movements in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Non-financial Assets remove certain disclosures of the recoverable This reclassification has no impact on the net assets or cash and cash amounts of CGUs.
The application of these amendments has no equivalents.
material impact on the disclosures in these consolidated financial statements.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting Amendments to IAS 39 on Novation of Derivatives and Continuation policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and of Hedge Accounting provide relief from discontinuing hedge estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a are discussed in note 2. hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
The application of these amendments has not had any material impact on these consolidated a Relevant new standards, amendments and financial statements.
interpretations issued and applied in the 2015 financial year: b Relevant new standards, amendments and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
This standard builds interpretations issued but effective subsequent to the on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the year end: determining factor in whether an entity should be included within IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet adopted by the EU consolidated financial statements.
The amendments do not have an IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers not yet adopted effect on these consolidated financial statements.
by the EU IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements provides for a more realistic reflection Amendments to IAS 38 on Intangible Assets of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
The amendments do not Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle have an effect on these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The amendments do not have a material impact on these consolidated financial statements.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued existed as of the date of the acquisition that, if known, would have The directors are still assessing the impact of these standards but do not affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
expect there to be a material impact on the financial statements of the group.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition Basis of preparation to the date the group obtains complete information about facts and The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is a maximum except for certain financial instruments which have been measured at of one year.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied Partial acquisitions control unaffected consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the in connection with the viability statement, the directors consider it additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing in non-controlling interests.
Step acquisitions control passes to the group Basis of consolidation Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at a Subsidiaries which control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company as if it had been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
The group controlling interest in the subsidiary.
The fair value of the previously held controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable interest then forms one of the components that is used to calculate returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect goodwill, along with the consideration and the non-controlling interest those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully less the fair value of identifiable net assets.
The consideration paid for the consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
earlier stages of a step acquisition, before control passes to the group, is They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
treated as an investment in an associate.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on b Transactions with non-controlling interests transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the business combinations.
The amount recognised as consideration by date of the original business combination and its share of changes in the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income acquired by the group plus contingent consideration should there be any is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the nonsuch arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair c Interests in joint ventures and associates values at acquisition.
The group recognises any non-controlling interest A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group and other in the acquiree at fair value.
parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, that is, when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value of the assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill An associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence also incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest in the and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy in the acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those net assets acquired.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of policies.
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised as negative goodwill directly in the Income Statement.
The post-tax results of joint ventures and associates are incorporated in the groups results using the equity method of accounting.
Under the If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are carried end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost as adjusted reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting for post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the the joint venture and associates, less any impairment in the value of the measurement period, or additional asset and liabilities are recognised investment.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 86 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight- 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess of the groups interest in that joint venture or associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are Freehold land do not depreciate provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the group Freehold buildings 2% has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease of the joint venture or associate.
Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease Office equipment 11% 33% Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Intangible assets Goodwill of the joint venture or associate recognised at the date of acquisition Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries, other than Fantfoot Limited, Centre benefited from the acquisition.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for for Investor Education UK Limited and Redquince Limited is sterling.
The which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of functional currency of other subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is available-for-sale investments is the currency of the primary economic an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount environment in which they operate.
of the cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the Transactions and balances goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange on a pro rata basis.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Income Statement and may not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the a subsidiary undertaking, the attributable amount of goodwill is included rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on foreign in the determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
currency borrowings and derivative instruments, to the extent that they are used to provide a hedge against the groups equity investments in Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the consolidated overseas undertakings, are taken to equity together with the exchange balance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end difference arising on the net investment in those undertakings.
Any exchange differences arising are taken directly to exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement.
equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the subsidiary.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translations of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has the net investment in foreign entities and borrowings and other currency been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested for instruments designated as hedges such as investments are taken to impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP shareholders equity.
The group treats specific inter-company loan before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in balances, which are not intended to be repaid in the foreseeable future, determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
as part of its net investment.
Internally generated intangible assets Group companies An internally generated intangible asset arising from the groups software The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into sterling and systems development is recognised only if all of the following at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their balance conditions are met: sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the An asset is created that can be identified such as software or a balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation website : are taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic related cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income benefits: and Statement in the period of disposal.
The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued Cash and cash equivalents Internally generated intangible assets are recognised at cost and Cash and cash equivalents include cash, short-term deposits and other amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful lives from the date the short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three asset becomes usable.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can months or less.
be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in For the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents the period in which it is incurred.
are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Other intangible assets Financial assets For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment The group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines Subsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged so as to write off the the classification of its assets on initial recognition and re-evaluates this costs of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, using designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets in the following a straight-line or reducing balance method.
These intangible assets are categories are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within reviewed for impairment as described below.
12 months: otherwise, they are classified as non-current.
Classification These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss impairment losses.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets Amortisation held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading following rates per year: unless they are designated as hedges.
Trademarks and brands 5 30 years Loans and receivables Customer relationships 1 16 years Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Databases 1 22 years determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Licences and software 3 5 years groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and Impairment of non-financial assets cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or Available-for-sale AFS financial assets intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are category or not classified in any of the other categories.
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment Recognition and measurement loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All financial an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes of assets, other than those carried at fair value through profit or loss, are assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Nonfinancial assets, other than goodwill, that suffer impairment are reviewed Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit Trade and other receivables and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period not be able to collect all amounts due in accordance to the original in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as financial terms.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the profit and financial assets section below.
loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 88 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued Loans and receivables The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows interest method.
excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying Available-for-sale AFS financial assets amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit AFS financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value where it can and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
If a loan be measured reliably.
AFS equity investments that do not have a quoted has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
measured are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses.
Offsetting financial instruments If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is recognised Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the Income.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after Impairment of financial assets the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A loss is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment Comprehensive Income.
losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a Financial liabilities result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of Committed borrowings and bank overdrafts the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts received, the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the period of assets that can be reliably estimated.
the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to the Income The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective Statement as incurred using the effective interest rate method and are evidence of an impairment loss include: added to the carrying value of the borrowings or overdraft to the extent significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or Trade payables and accruals principal payments: Trade payables and accruals are not interest-bearing and are stated at their the group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers fair value.
financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider: Derivative financial instruments it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its financial reorganisation: exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
of financial difficulties: or observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the All derivative instruments are recorded in the Statement of Financial estimate of future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since Position at fair value.
The recognition of gains or losses on derivative the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The group designates including: certain derivatives as either: i. adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm portfolio: and commitment fair value hedge : ii.
national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or on the assets in the portfolio.
liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less than Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do transferred to the Income Statement.
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement Net investment hedge as they arise.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the Fair value hedge same way as cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement, together with recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such attributable to the hedged risk.
The group only applies fair value hedge gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
accounting for hedging fixed asset risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
subsidiaries and fluctuations in the value of sterling versus foreign The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the currencies could materially affect the amount of these items in the Income Statement within operating profit.
Changes in the fair value consolidated financial statements, even if their values have not changed of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are in their original currency.
The group does endeavour to match foreign recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement Liabilities in respect of acquisition commitments and deferred immediately.
consideration Liabilities for acquisition commitments over the remaining minority Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in interests in subsidiaries and deferred consideration are recorded in the the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement Statement of Financial Position at their estimated discounted present for example when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
These discounts are unwound and charged to the Income Statement as notional interest over the period up to the date of the The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps potential future payment.
hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Taxation in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates asset for example fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 90 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Multi-employer scheme 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust Tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of plc.
As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole to the individual entities, used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the the group recognises an expense equal to its contributions payable in balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for the period and does not recognise any unfunded liability of this pension taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to scheme on its balance sheet.
In other words, this scheme is treated as a the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against defined contribution plan.
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings of foreign Defined benefit plans subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the reversal of Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that The group operates the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme, a defined benefit sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to scheme.
The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the present value of the to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in by independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The present the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting directly to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and equity, the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in Consolidated Statement corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the of Comprehensive Income and equity.
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
The actuarial valuations are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the Statement on a net basis.
of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
Provisions Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is Share-based payments probable that economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on liability.
a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of each period the Pensions vesting assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, value of these options updated.
For cash-settled share-based payments a ex-gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions are liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the based on the advice of independent actuaries.
current fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
Payments to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 1 ACCouNTiNg PoliCies continued Segment reporting Revenue Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the date of publication.
2 key JudgemeNTAl AReAs AdoPTed iN Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a PRePARiNg These FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Subscription The group prepares its group financial statements in accordance with revenues contains certain items recognised on a cash basis including International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the application of voting revenues where the amount paid by the customer is determined which often requires judgements to be made by management when by a qualitative vote and paid in arrears for services rendered, and formulating the groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the best efforts revenues where the payments for services rendered are directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate uncertain until received.
to the groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Statement over the period the event is run.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported Leased assets results or net asset position of the group should it later be determined Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership that a different choice would have been more appropriate.
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis discussed below to be its key judgemental areas and accordingly provides as allowed by IAS 17 Leases.
an explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical Dividends accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are committee.
approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the groups in the period in which they are paid.
disclosure of IFRS accounting policies in note 1.
Own shares held by Employees Share Ownership Trust Centre for Investor Education Limited CIE and Employees Share Trust In April 2013 the group acquired a 75% equity interest in CIE for a final Transactions of the group-sponsored trusts are included in the group consideration of 10.2m, with a commitment to acquire the remaining financial statements.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the 25% by early 2016.
At September 30 2014 based on the reported company are debited direct to equity.
financial performance of CIE up to that date, the liability for the acquisition Earnings per share commitment was valued at 3.5m and the deferred consideration was The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations follow valued at 1.7m.
However, as part of the local statutory audit of CIE for the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
The diluted earnings per the year to September 30 2014, a number of governance and financial share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the irregularities were identified which remain subject to legal resolution.
As exercise of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital a result of these irregularities, the former owner-managers of CIE were Appreciation Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the replaced and a number of adjustments made to the groups investment in ordinary shares held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership Trust CIE.
The acquisition goodwill has been subject to an impairment charge and Euromoney Employee Share Trust.
The group, in preparation of these financial statements at September 30 2015 has examined all evidence, including its own Exceptional items management investigation and Deloitte & Touche LLP Australias findings, Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the in reaching the conclusion that no further amounts are payable under directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being the share purchase agreement for CIE.
In October 2015, the group filed either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in a public statement of claim against the previous owners for breaches of order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of warranties and other damages.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 92 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Acquisition commitments 2 key JudgemeNTAl AReAs AdoPTed iN PRePARiNg These FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs continued The group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining As a result, the group has revised its prior estimate of acquisition non-controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS32 Financial commitments in respect of CIE which has given rise to a credit of 3.5m Instruments: Presentation requires the discounted present value of these and deferred consideration credit of 1.7m included in net finance income acquisition commitments to be recognised as a liability on the Statement as a fair value adjustment note 7.
The group has also fide-recognised the of Financial Position with a corresponding decrease in reserves.
Each non-controlling interest in equity.
period end management reassesses the amount expected to be paid and any changes to the initial amount are recognised as a finance income Acquisitions and disposals or expense in the Income Statement.
The discounts are unwound as a The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
Key areas of judgement is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and in calculating the discounted present value of these commitments contingent liabilities acquired.
are the expected future cash flows and earnings of the business, the period remaining until the option is exercised, and the discount rate.
At In December 2014, the group sold its investments in Capital NET and September 30 2015 the discounted present value of these acquisition Capital DATA for a combined consideration of $85.0m note 13, which commitments was 9.2m 2014: 13.4m.
included a 15.5% minority stake in Dealogic for $59.2m.
The following key accounting judgements were made: Goodwill and other intangibles impairment Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than That the disposal and subsequent acquisition had commercial the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating units substance, meaning that a gain on disposal should be recognised.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net present This investment has been equity accounted as an associate under IAS value are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of the 28 by virtue of the groups significant influence conveyed by its 20% applicable businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
voting rights and board representation.
Goodwill held on the Statement of Financial Position at September30 The calculation of the 48.4m profit on disposal of Capital NET and 2015 was 382.0m 2014: 383.9m.
Share-based payments Deferred consideration The group makes long-term incentive payments to certain employees.
The group often pays for a portion of the equity acquired at a future date.
These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date This deferred consideration is contingent on the future results of the entity of grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
This acquired and valuation multiplier applicable to those results.
The initial fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting amount of the deferred consideration is recognised as a liability in the period, based on the estimated number of shares that will eventually vest.
Each period end management reassesses The key assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the options are the amount expected to be paid and any changes to the initial amount the discount rate, the groups share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free are recognised as finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
rate of return, and expected option lives.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred consideration that is likely to be paid, particularly in relation These assumptions are set out in note 23.
Management regularly performs to the future profitability of the acquired business.
At September 30 2015 a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares expected to vest, which the discounted present value of the deferred consideration asset was is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
The directors regularly reassess the expected vesting period.
A plan that vests earlier than originally estimated results in an acceleration of the fair value expense of the plan recognised in the Income Statement at the time the reassessment occurs.
Equally, a plan that vests later than previously estimated results in a credit to the Income Statement at the date of reassessment.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 The group has certain significant open items in several tax jurisdictions 2 key JudgemeNTAl AReAs AdoPTed iN PRePARiNg These FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs continued and as a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements The groups long-term incentive schemes, CAP 2014 and CSOP 2014 were in respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation granted in 2014.
The final award is subject to a number of performance and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty tests which may change the number of shares that will vest.
At the half regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could year, management reversed the cumulative CAP 2014 charge of 2.5m differ from the accounting estimates and therefore affect the groups through the Income Statement as the latest forecasts for the group did results and cash flows.
not indicate that the required profit target would be met in 2017.
The Significant provisions and accruals credit for long-term incentive payments for the year ended September 30 The group continues to recognise significant provisions and accruals 2015 is 2.5m 2014: charge of 2.4m.
including a provision for the impairment of trade receivables and Defined benefit pension scheme property-related provisions.
Impairment provisions for trade receivables The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is are made when there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred.
recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject A property-related provision is measured based on best estimates of the to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of expenditure required to settle the obligation at each period end date.
the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes 3 segmeNTAl ANAlysis assets and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business in note 26.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting benchmarked against similar pension schemes.
The group is organised into four business divisions: Research and data: Financial publishing: Business publishing: Conferences, Taxation seminars and training.
Financial publishing and Business publishing consist The groups tax expense on profit is the sum of the total current and primarily of advertising and subscription revenue.
Conferences, seminars deferred tax expense.
The calculation of the groups total tax charge and training consists of both sponsorship income and delegate revenue, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect as well as subscription revenue for membership institutes.
Research and of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined data consists primarily of subscription revenue.
A breakdown of the until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as groups revenue by type is set out below.
appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow Following the disposal of MIS Training Institute Holdings, Inc. MIS variances.
Training during the year to September 30 2014, the training division has been merged with Conferences and seminars due to the relative size The group is a multinational with tax affairs in many geographical of the training division as compared to other divisions.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the comparative segment information has been restated.
groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control In October 2014 the group disposed of four newsletter titles and in of the group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative December 2014 the group disposed of 100% of the equity share capital processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
in both Capital NET and Capital DATA.
As a result segment information Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect from the disposal of the titles and Capital NET and Capital DATA has been of tax liabilities for an accounting period include payments on account reclassified as sold closed businesses and the comparative split of divisional and depend on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there revenues, revenue by type and operating profits have been restated.
can be substantial differences between the tax expense in the Income Statement and tax payments.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 94 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 segmeNTAl ANAlysis continued Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns below.
Operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive credit expense and exceptional items refer to the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement.
Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition-related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks and brands, customer relationships and databases note 11.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 segmeNTAl ANAlysis continued united Kingdom North America rest of world total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-current assets excluding derivative financial instruments, deferred consideration and deferred tax assets by location: Goodwill 122,037 137,669 253,560 236,369 6,396 9,896 381,993 383,934 Other intangible assets 64,773 73,681 83,913 86,978 700 850 149,386 161,509 Property, plant and equipment 7,274 14,661 1,340 1,757 557 506 9,171 16,924 Investments 38,302 72 38,302 72 Non-current assets 232,386 226,083 338,813 325,104 7,653 11,252 578,852 562,439 Capital expenditure by location 5,622 2,465 493 397 372 243 6,487 3,105 The group has taken advantage of paragraph 23 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments and does not provide segmental analysis of net assets as this information is not used by the directors in operational decision making or monitoring of business performance.
4 oPeRATiNg PRoFiT 2015 2014 000 000 Revenue 403,412 406,559 Cost of sales 107,488 106,057 Gross profit 295,924 300,502 Distribution costs 3,278 3,582 Administrative expenses 169,528 193,583 operating profit 123,118 103,337 Administrative expenses include items separately disclosed in exceptional items of 33.4m 2014: 2.6m note 5.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 4 oPeRATiNg PRoFiT continued 2015 2014 operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 000 000 Staff costs note 6 158,381 156,923 Intangible amortisation: Acquired intangible amortisation 17,027 16,735 Licences and software 2,680 1,962 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,643 2,908 Property operating lease rentals 8,961 7,443 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 7 Exceptional items note 5 : Profit on disposal of associate 2,921 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 45,502 Profit on disposal of business 2014: includes recycled cumulative translation differences 2,446 6,834 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,181 Goodwill impairment 18,458 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 3,171 3,760 Impairment of carrying value of associate 444 Foreign exchange loss 2,449 1,437 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2015 2014 000 000 Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the groups annual accounts 509 390 Fees payable for other services to the group: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 250 350 759 740 Assurance services: Audit related assurance services 119 115 Non-audit services: Taxation compliance services 16 85 Other taxation advisory services 63 284 Other services 34 23 113 392 total group auditors remuneration 991 1,247  LLP was appointed as the groups auditor for the year ended September 30 2015.
Accordingly comparative figures in the table above for the year ended September 30 2014 are in respect of remuneration paid to the groups previous auditor, Deloitte LLP and other member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 98 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5 exCePTioNAl iTems Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2015 2014 000 000 Profit on disposal of associate 2,921 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 45,502 Profit on disposal of business 2014: includes recycled cumulative translation differences 2,446 6,834 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,181 55,050 6,834 Goodwill impairment 18,458 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 3,171 3,760 Impairment of carrying value of associate 444 33,421 2,630 for the year ended september 30 2015 the group recognised an exceptional credit of 33.4m.
During the year the group disposed of its interests in a number of assets generating a gain on sale of 55.1m.
Most of this relates to the sale of groups interests in Capital DATA and Capital NET as part of the Dealogic transaction note 13.
The group also sold a number of predominantly print-based newsletters and magazines note 14 as well as certain freehold and leasehold properties as part of the relocation of its London offices.
Following the sharp downturn in the commodities sector in 2015 and no sign that market conditions will improve over the near term, the group has impaired the value of its investment in the Investing in African Mining Indaba Mining Indaba, originally purchased in July 2014, by 10.7m.
The group expects Mining Indaba to recover strongly once commodity markets pick up and will continue with its strategy set out at the time of the acquisition to develop the events investor content and networking opportunities and to use its expertise in emerging markets, as well as its international network, to accelerate growth outside Africa.
The acquisition goodwill for Centre for Investor Education CIE has been subject to an impairment charge of 2.9m.
For further details see note 2.
The remaining 4.8m charge for goodwill impairment relates to HedgeFund Intelligence HFI, the groups information and events business serving the hedge fund industry.
The performance of the business since the last year end has been disappointing but for 2016 HFI products have moved onto the Delphi content platform which will significantly enhance their quality.
Restructuring and other exceptional costs cover the major reorganisation of certain businesses initiated in the first half, costs relating to the relocation of the groups London headquarters, and professional fees resulting from the CIE dispute.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax charge on these exceptional items of 1.0m note 8. for the year ended september 30 2014 the group recognised a net exceptional credit of 2.6m.
This comprised an exceptional credit for the profit on disposal of MIS Training offset by exceptional acquisition costs, restructuring and property costs, and impairment of carrying value of associate.
The restructuring and other exceptional costs of 3.8m include acquisition costs of 0.9m for the acquisitions of Infrastructure Journal and Mining Indaba, costs of 1.5m for the relocation of the groups London headquarters and restructuring costs of 1.3m from the reorganisation of certain businesses including closure of print products.
The groups tax charge included a related tax charge of 0.3m.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 6 sTAFF CosTs i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2015 2014 Average Average By business segment: Research and data 846 822 Financial publishing 394 385 Business publishing 301 278 Conferences, seminars and training 398 418 Central 381 506 2,320 2,409 2015 2014 Average Average By geographical location: United Kingdom 923 990 North America 741 761 656 658 Rest of World 2,320 2,409 ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2015 2014 000 000 Wages and salaries 146,944 141,131 Social security costs 10,754 10,517 Other pension costs 3,173 2,908 2,490 2,367 Long-term incentive credit expense 158,381 156,923 Details of directors remuneration have been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 69.
7 FiNANCe iNCome ANd exPeNse 2015 2014 000 000 finance income Interest income: Interest receivable from short-term investments 379 235 Movements in acquisition commitments note 24 4,748 1,298 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 13 5,127 1,546 finance expense Interest expense: Interest payable on committed borrowings 1,120 1,349 Net interest expense on defined benefit liability note 26 170 120 Movements in acquisition deferred consideration note 24 2,851 1,873 Interest on tax 438 330 4,579 3,672 Net finance income costs 548 2,126 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 100 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7 FiNANCe iNCome ANd exPeNse continued 2015 2014 000 000 reconciliation of net finance income costs in income statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance income costs in Income Statement 548 2,126 Add back: Movements in acquisition commitments 4,748 1,298 Movements in deferred consideration 2,851 1,873 1,897 575 Adjusted net finance costs 1,349 1,551 The reconciliation of net finance income costs in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
Included in the movements of acquisition commitments and deferred consideration are fair value adjustments of 3.5m and 1.7m respectively for CIE for further detail see note 2.
8 TAx oN PRoFiT 2015 2014 000 000 current tax expense UK corporation tax expense 7,989 6,906 Foreign tax expense 12,949 12,695 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,083 570 19,855 19,031 deferred tax expense Current year 1,764 6,107 Adjustments in respect of prior years 492 472 2,256 6,579 total tax expense in income statement 17,599 25,610 Effective tax rate 14% 25% The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is set out below: 2015 2014 000 000 reconciliation of tax expense in income statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 17,599 25,610 Add back: Tax on acquired intangible amortisation 4,096 4,114 Tax on exceptional items 983 263 3,113 3,851 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 4,113 3,837 Share of tax on associates 716 1,575 98 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,291 112 Adjusted tax expense 18,890 25,722 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement 107,810 116,155 Adjusted effective tax rate 18% 22% 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 8 TAx oN PRoFiT continued The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The group considers that the resulting adjusted effective tax rate is more representative of its tax payable position, as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
The actual tax expense for the year is different from 20.5% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2015 2014 000 000 Profit before tax 123,285 101,475 Tax at 20.5% 2014: 22% 25,273 22,325 Factors affecting tax charge: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in overseas jurisdictions 3,150 6,238 Share of tax on associates and joint ventures 84 73 US state taxes 1,371 1,075 Non-taxable income 6,356 Goodwill and intangibles 197 63 Disallowable expenditure 1,734 92 Other items deductible for tax purposes 5,515 3,394 Tax impact of consortium relief 596 618 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,575 98 total tax expense for the year 17,599 25,610 In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income and equity: other comprehensive income equity 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 Current tax 2,690 97 495 492 996 Deferred tax note 21 97 495 492 1,694 9 diVideNds 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in year Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2014 of 16.00p 2013: 15.75p 20,501 19,917 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2015 of 7.00p 2014: 7.00p 8,977 8,969 29,478 28,886 Employee share trusts dividend 414 115 29,064 28,771 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 21,033 20,501 Employee share trusts dividend 296 289 20,737 20,212 The proposed final dividend of 16.40p 2014: 16.00p is subject to approval at the AGM on January 28 2016 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 102 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10 eARNiNgs PeR shARe 2015 2014 000 000 Basic earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 105,444 75,264 16,766 14,568 Adjustments refer to the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement Adjusted earnings 88,678 89,832 2015 2014 Number Number 000 000 Weighted average number of shares 128,202 127,506 1,807 990 Shares held by the employee share trusts weighted average number of shares 126,395 126,516 65 720 Effect of dilutive share options diluted weighted average number of shares 126,460 127,236 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 83.42 59.49 Adjustments per share 13.26 11.51 Adjusted basic earnings per share 70.16 71.00 diluted earnings per share 83.38 59.15 Adjustments per share 13.26 11.45 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 70.12 70.60 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it necessary in order to give an indication of the underlying trading performance.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11 goodWill ANd oTheR iNTANgibles continued Intangible assets, other than goodwill, have a finite life and are amortised over their expected useful lives at the rates set out in the accounting policies in note 1 of this report.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The methodology applied to the value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: budgets by business based on pre-tax cash flows with a CAGR of 3% to 25% for the next four years derived from approved 2015 budgets.
Management believes these budgets to be reasonably achievable: subsequent cash flows for one additional year increased in line with growth expectations of the applicable businesses: pre-tax discount rates between 12.3% and 13.8%, derived from the companys benchmarked weighted average cost of capital WACC of 10.7% adjusted for risks specific to the nature of CGUs and risks included within the cash flows themselves: and long-term nominal growth rate of between 2% and 3%.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 11 goodWill ANd oTheR iNTANgibles continued Following the impairment review, the net impairment losses recognised in exceptional items note 5 in respect of goodwill are as follows: 2015 2014 cGu reportable segment 000 000 Mining Indaba Conferences, seminars and training 10,679 Centre for Investor Education Conferences, seminars and training 2,947 HedgeFund Intelligence Financial publishing 4,832 total 18,458 Goodwill sensitivity analysis Further disclosures in accordance with IAS 36 are provided where the group holds an individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is significant, which the group considers to be 15% of the total net book value, in comparison with the groups total carrying value of goodwill.
The only significant item of goodwill included in the net book value above relate to BCA.
Using the above methodology, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% and long-term nominal growth rate of 2%, the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 150.4m.
The directors performed a sensitivity analysis on the total carrying value of this CGU.
For the recoverable amount to fall to the carrying value the discount rate would need to be increased by 10.2% or the long-term growth rate reduced by 29%.
For the other CGUs, IAS 36 provides that, if there is any reasonably possible change to a key assumption that would cause the CGUs carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount, further disclosures are required.
For NDR when using the above methodology and a pre-tax discount rate of 13% and long-term nominal growth rate of 2% the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 9.5m.
Sensitivity analysis performed around the base case assumptions has indicated that for NDR, the following changes in assumptions in isolation, would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value: the five year pre-tax cash flows decreased by 12%: the discount rate increased by 2%: the long-term growth rate reduced by 4%.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12 PRoPeRTy, PlANT ANd equiPmeNT continued Freehold Long-term Short-term land and leasehold leasehold Office buildings premises premises equipment Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 000 000 000 000 000 cost At October 1 2013 6,447 3,082 16,583 20,791 46,903 Additions 1,838 1,267 3,105 Disposals 11 319 330 Balance at disposal of company 29 196 225 Exchange differences 1 8 226 235 At september 30 2014 6,447 3,081 18,373 21,317 49,218 depreciation At October 1 2013 449 808 10,781 18,073 30,111 Charge for the year 83 121 1,121 1,583 2,908 Disposals 11 316 327 Balance at disposal of company 15 191 206 Exchange differences 1 1 194 192 At september 30 2014 532 930 11,877 18,955 32,294 Net book value at september 30 2014 5,915 2,151 6,496 2,362 16,924 Net book value at september 30 2013 5,998 2,274 5,802 2,718 16,792 13 iNVesTmeNTs investment Availableinvestment in joint for-sale in associates ventures investments total 000 000 000 000 At October 1 2013 702 702 Impairment 444 444 Disposals 127 127 Share of profits after tax retained 264 264 Share of profits before tax and acquired intangible amortisation 337 337 Share of tax 73 73 323 323 Dividends At september 30 2014 72 72 Additions 32,855 34 5,835 38,724 Disposals 10 10 377 4 381 Share of profits after tax retained Share of profits before tax and acquired intangible amortisation 2,440 5 2,435 Share of tax 85 1 84 Share of acquired intangible amortisation 2,732 2,732 Dividends 123 123 At september 30 2015 32,437 30 5,835 38,302 All of the above investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated financial statements as set out in groups accounting policies in note 1.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 13 iNVesTmeNTs continued 2015 2014 000 000 reconciliation of share of results in associates and joint ventures in income statement to adjusted share of results in associates and joint ventures Total share of results in associates and joint ventures in Income Statement 381 264 Add back: Share of tax 84 Share of acquired intangible amortisation 2,732 2,816 Adjusted share of results in associates and joint ventures 2,435 264 Information on investment in associates, investment in joint ventures and available-for-sale investments: year description Group country of Note Principal activity ended of holding interest incorporation investment in associates Diamond TopCo Limited Dealogic 1 Capital market software solutions Dec 31 Ordinary share capital 15.5% UK World Bulk Wine Exhibition WBWE 2 Event for commercialisation of bulk wine Dec 31 Ordinary share capital 40.0% Spain investment in joint ventures Institutional Investor Zanbato Limited 3 Hedge fund manager trading signals Sept 30 Ordinary share capital 50.0% UK II Zanbato Sanostro Institutional AG Sanostro 4 Hedge fund manager trading signals Dec 31 Ordinary share capital 50.0% Switzerland Available-for-sale investments Estimize, Inc Estimize 5 Financial estimates platform Dec 31 Ordinary share capital 10.0% Delaware, US Zanbato, Inc Zanbato 6 Private capital placement and workflow Dec 31 Ordinary share capital 9.9% California, US 1.
In December 2014 the group acquired 15.5% of the equity share capital with 20% voting rights in Dealogic, a company incorporated by the Carlyle Group.
Dealogic provides data and analytics, market intelligence and capital markets software solutions to investment banks to help them manage their workflows, assist with deal origination and execution, and optimise productivity across their equity capital markets, fixed income, investment banking and research, sales and trading businesses.
In April 2015 the group acquired 40% of the equity share capital of WBWE for a consideration of 1.3m 0.9m.
WBWE is the biggest event in the world dedicated to the commercialisation of bulk wine.
In November 2014 the group set up a new joint venture with Zanbato Inc. with each owning 50% equity share capital in II Zanbato.
In December 2014 the group acquired 50% of the equity share capital of Sanostro for a cash consideration of 34,000.
Sanostro provides hedge fund manager trading signals to European banks.
The group has joint control over the company.
In July 2015 the group acquired 10% of the equity share capital of Estimize for a cash consideration of $3.6m 2.3m.
Estimize provides a financial estimates platform through sourcing estimates from hedge fund, brokerage and independent analysts to provide consensus market expectations.
This investment is treated as an available-for-sale investment.
In September 2015 the group acquired 9.9% of the equity share capital of Zanbato for a cash consideration of $5.4m 3.5m.
Zanbato is an international private capital placement and workflow tools provider.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 108 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 iNVesTmeNTs continued Set out below is the summarised financial information for Dealogic as at September 30 2015 which in the opinion of the directors is material to the group: dealogic 2015 000 summarised balance sheet: Current assets 26,271 Non-current assets 494,725 Current liabilities 263,855 Non-current liabilities 7,622 Net assets 249,519 summarised statement of comprehensive income: Revenue 75,187 Profit from continuing operations 5,184 Post tax loss from continuing operations 2,745 2,085 Other comprehensive expense total comprehensive expense 4,830 Group share of loss after tax 418 Dividends received from the associate during the year Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in Dealogic recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements: dealogic 2015 000 Closing net assets 249,519 Proportion of the groups ownership interest in the associate 38,675 Restriction of profit applied on acquisition 5,862 Goodwill 128 1,148 Exchange differences carrying amount of the groups interest in the associate 31,537 Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: 2015 000 Group share of profit from continuing operations 41 Aggregate carrying amount of the groups interests in these associates 900 Capital NET Limited CapNet In December 2014 the group disposed of 100% of its equity share capital in CapNet for a cash consideration of US$4.6m 2.9m.
At the date of disposal, CapNet had a net liability value of 10,000 resulting in a profit on disposal of 2.9m note 5.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 13 iNVesTmeNTs continued Assets available-for-sale investments Capital DATA Limited CapData The group had a 50% interest in CapData.
The ordinary share capital of CapData was divided into 50 A shares and 50 B shares with the group owning the 50 A shares.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of CapData, the A shares held by the group did not carry entitlement to any share of dividends or other distribution of profits of CapData.
The group did not have the ability to exercise significant influence nor was it involved in the dayto-day running of CapData.
As such the investment in CapData was accounted for as an asset available-for-sale with a carrying value of nil 2014: nil.
In December 2014 the group disposed its equity share capital in CapData for a total consideration of US$80.4m, settled by US$59.2m of ordinary B shares representing 15.5% and US$21.2m of zero-coupon redeemable preferences shares in Dealogic.
The $59.2m of B shares were valued based on the price paid by other third party investors in Dealogic.
IAS 28 requires that where a non-monetary asset is contributed to an associate for an equity interest in that associate, the resulting gain must be restricted.
As the group received part of the consideration for CapData US$59.2m in the form of an associate interest in Dealogic, this element of the disposal gain must be restricted by the percentage of the groups investment in the new structure, namely 15.5%.
The consideration in preference shares is treated as a current receivable given the fixed short-term redemption of this instrument, and the related profit on disposal is recognised immediately.
The profit on disposal note 5 is as follows: $000 000 Ordinary B shares in Dealogic received as consideration 59,225 37,817 9,180 5,862 Restriction applied to ordinary B shares consideration 50,045 31,955 Preference shares received 21,215 13,547 total profit on disposal 71,260 45,502 14 ACquisiTioNs ANd disPosAls Purchase of new business Infrastructure Journal IJ During the financial year to September 30 2014, the group acquired IJ.
The fair value of net assets acquired and consideration for the acquisition have been finalised and there were no changes since September 30 2014.
Increase in equity holdings TTI Technologies LLC TTI Vanguard In March 2015 the group acquired 5.4% of the equity share capital of TTI Vanguard for a cash consideration of US$0.2m 0.1m.
The groups equity shareholding in TTI Vanguard increased to 100%.
Family Office Network Limited FON In April 2015 the group acquired 49% of the equity share capital of FON for a cash consideration of US$0.2m 0.1m.
The groups equity shareholding in FON increased to 100%.
Sale of business Institutional Investor Titles II Titles On October 31 2014, the group completed the sale of its newsletter publications and website services titled Compliance Intelligence, Fund Director Intelligence, Fund Industry Intelligence, and Real Estate Finance Intelligence to Pageant Media Limited.
The disposal of II Titles gave rise to a profit on disposal of US$4.0m 2.4m, after deducting disposal costs incurred, which was recognised as an exceptional item note 5 in the Income Statement.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 110 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 ACquisiTioNs ANd disPosAls continued The net assets of II Titles at the date of disposal were as follows: final fair value 000 Net liabilities disposed 2,129 directly attributable costs 53 Profit on disposal 2,446 total consideration 370 consideration satisfied by: Cash 93 Deferred consideration 277 370 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Cash consideration net of directly attributable costs 40 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances disposed 40 The net liabilities disposed mainly relates to the deferred revenue balances held by the group, with Pageant Media now being responsible for the delivery of the underlying service.
15 TRAde ANd oTheR ReCeiVAbles 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 59,084 54,874 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 5,441 5,226 Trade receivables net of provision 53,643 49,648 Amounts owed by DMGT group undertakings 192 485 Other debtors 20,347 6,684 Prepayments 7,451 8,089 1,753 2,518 Accrued income 83,386 67,424 The 2014 comparatives have been re-presented to reflect a reclassification to net down certain balances within trade receivables of 8.5m, accrued income of 3.9m and deferred subscription income of 12.4m note 17.
The corresponding impact of this representation on the opening balance sheet at October 1 2013 would have been a net reduction to trade receivables of 6.7m, accrued income of 4.5m and deferred subscription income of 11.2m.
This reclassification has no impact on net assets.
The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
As at September 30 2015, trade receivables of 21.9m 2014: 34.1m were not yet due.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 15 TRAde ANd oTheR ReCeiVAbles continued Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables: 2015 2014 000 000 Past due less than a month 14,496 5,978 Past due more than a month but less than two months 3,760 4,005 Past due more than two months but less than three months 2,990 1,830 Past due more than three months 2,649 2,274 23,895 14,087 The group has not provided for these trade receivables as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 67 days 2014: 73 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Ageing of trade receivables impaired and partially provided for: 2015 2014 000 000 Past due less than a month 6,444 1,763 Past due more than a month but less than two months 2,195 1,065 Past due more than two months but less than three months 462 157 Past due more than three months 4,203 3,660 13,304 6,645 The amount of the provision for impaired trade receivables was 5.4m 2014: 5.2m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 At October 1 5,226 5,846 Impairment losses recognised 4,835 4,686 Impairment losses reversed 3,007 3,537 Amounts written off as uncollectible 1,696 1,707 Disposals 30 Exchange differences 83 32 At september 30 5,441 5,226 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the Income Statement.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 112 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 TRAde ANd oTheR PAyAbles 2015 2014 000 000 Trade creditors 2,490 2,969 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 534 20 Liability for cash-settled options 71 147 Other creditors 20,916 22,396 24,011 25,532 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
17 deFeRRed iNCome 2015 2014 000 000 Deferred subscription income note 15 86,198 82,026 25,931 27,816 Other deferred income 112,129 109,842 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT 2015 2014 Assets liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 forward foreign exchange contracts - cash flow hedge: Current 1,313 3,346 2,611 1,322 Non-current 9 661 179 385 1,322 4,007 2,790 1,707 Financial risk management objectives The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out in this note and on pages 88 and 89 of the accounting policies.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
Further details are set out in the interest rate risk section on page 116.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section page 114.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2014.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash deposits with Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group disclosed in note 28, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Net cash debt to EBITDA ratio The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
As part of the debt covenants under the loan facility provided by DMGT, the board must ensure net debt to a rolling 12 month EBITDA do not exceed three times.
During the financial year ended September 30 2015 the net debt to rolling 12 month EBITDA did not breach the DMGT debt covenant.
The DMGT loan was repaid in full in September 2015.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net cash debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
On November 13 2013, the group signed a US$160m multi-currency replacement facility with DMGT that provides access to funds, should the group require it during the period to April 2016.
The facility requires the groups net debt to EBITDA to be no more than three times.
On August 3 2015, the group entered into a deposit agreement with DMGT to place excess operating funds on deposit with DMGT at a LIBID plus 0.5%.
The total cash deposit held with DMGT is disclosed in note 28.
The increase in cash position has converted the historical net debt into a net cash position.
The net cash debt to EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Committed loan facility at weighted average exchange rate 45,403 Loan notes 267 490 total debt 267 45,893 Cash deposit 9,799 Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts 8,148 8,571 Net cash debt 17,680 37,322 eBitdA 114,482 122,576 Net cash debt to eBitdA ratio 0.15 0.30 EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 114 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued Categories of financial instruments The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,322 2,790 Deferred consideration note 24 589 1,886 Loans and receivables including cash at bank and short-term deposits 94,623 67,906 96,534 72,582 financial liabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 4,007 1,707 Acquisition commitments note 24 9,171 13,365 Deferred consideration note 24 Level 3 10,389 Loans and payables including bank overdrafts 80,762 120,138 93,940 145,599 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than deferred consideration which is classified as level 3 page 119.
The directors consider that the carrying value amounts of financial assets and liabilities are equal to their fair value.
The group has derivative assets of 1.3m 2014: 2.8m and derivative liabilities of 4.0m 2014: 1.7m with a number of banks that do not meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32, but which the group has the right to setoff same currency cash flows settled on the same date.
Consequently, the gross amount of the derivative assets and the gross amount of the derivative liabilities are presented separately in the groups Statement of Financial Position.
The group has entered into an omnibus guarantee and setoff agreement with Lloyds Banking Group plc with a right to setoff outstanding credit balances against cash balances.
Gross assets of 10.4m 2014: 10.3m and gross liabilities of 2.3m 2014: 1.8m under this agreement meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32 are setoff, resulting in the presentation of a net derivative asset of 8.1m 2014: 8.6m in the groups Statement of Financial Position.
i Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2015.
The group has no other material market price risks.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
ii Foreign exchange rate risk The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar-denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 US dollar 78,404 77,011 158,319 138,447 Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and euro revenues over an 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
If management materially underestimate the groups future US dollar and euro denominated revenues, this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
Impact of 10% strengthening of sterling against US dollar The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a negative number below indicates a decrease in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other comprehensive income, and the balances below would be positive.
2015 2014 000 000 Change in profit for the year in Income Statement US$ net assets in UK companies 892 583 Change in other comprehensive income derivative financial instruments 8,184 6,819 Change in other comprehensive income external loans and loans to foreign operations 12,466 10,350 The increase in the loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to a decrease in the working capital assets.
The increase in other comprehensive income from 6.8m to 8.2m from the sensitivity analysis is due to the increase of the value of the derivative financial assets.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in other comprehensive income from a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of external loans and loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 12.5m 2014: 10.4m.
However, the change in other comprehensive income is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 116 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the subsidiarys Canadian cost base.
As at September 30 2015, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 2.7m 2014: gains 1.1m.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2015, there were no ineffective cash flow hedges in place at the year end 2014: nil.
iii Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
As at September 30 2015, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding as the group had repaid its debt in full 2014: nil.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 117.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups profit for the year ended September 30 2015 would decrease or increase by 0.1m 2014: 0.4m.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and decrease in loan payable to DMGT with the eventual repayment of loan at September 2015. iv Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result have a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents and cash on deposit with DMGT.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for cash on deposit and derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
v Liquidity risk The group is an approved borrower under a DMGT US$160m dedicated multi-currency facility which expires at the end of April 2016.
The DMGT loan facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Exceeding the covenant would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenants and prepares detailed cash flow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2015, the groups net cash to adjusted EBITDA was 0.15 times.
In August 2015, the group entered into a deposit agreement with DMGT to place any excess operating funds on deposit with DMGT at a LIBID plus 0.5%.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to deposit with DMGT or pay down its debt.
As at September 2015, the group repaid the multicurrency borrowing facility with DMGT in full.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items of 100% or more due to much of its subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
The groups operating cash conversion rate was 105%.
The underlying operating cash conversion rate is 101% compared to 100% in 2014.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although at a higher cost of funding.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2015.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 118 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued weighted average effective less than interest rate 1 year 13 years total 2015 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 3.08 267 267 Acquisition commitments 9,171 9,171 80,495 80,495 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 80,762 9,171 89,933 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2014 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 2.67 490 45,677 46,167 Acquisition commitments 2,088 11,277 13,365 Deferred consideration 10,389 10,389 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 73,505 466 73,971 86,472 57,420 143,892 During September 2015 the committed facility with DMGT group was repaid and at September 30 2015, the group placed 1.2m of deposits 2014: 37.8m of borrowings designated in US dollars with the remainder in sterling.
The average rate of interest paid on the debt during the year was 4.32% 2014: 3.42%.
The following table details the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly short-term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
weighted average effective less than interest rate 1 year 13 years total 2015 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short-term deposits 3.16 18,688 18,688 Deferred consideration 331 258 589 75,935 75,935 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 94,954 258 95,212 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2014 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank 1.65 8,571 8,571 Deferred consideration 354 1,532 1,886 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 59,335 59,335 68,260 1,532 69,792 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 18 FiNANCiAl iNsTRumeNTs ANd Risk mANAgemeNT continued The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years total 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 8,212 14,754 68,469 30,808 122,243 8,375 15,342 69,717 31,383 124,817 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 163 588 1,248 575 2,574 Less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years Total 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,463 14,515 65,983 23,426 111,387 7,085 14,001 65,235 23,445 109,766 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 378 514 748 19 1,621 Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: Level 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Level 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Level 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2015 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups acquisition commitments and deferred consideration which are classified as level 3.
Other financial instruments not recorded at fair value The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Such financial assets and financial liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and loans.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 120 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 loANs 2015 2014 000 000 Loan notes current liabilities 267 490 Committed loan facility non-current liabilities 45,677 Loan notes Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
At least 20 business days written notice prior to the redemption date is required.
During the year ended September 30 2015 0.2m 2014: 0.5m of these loan notes were redeemed.
Committed loan facility The groups debt is provided through a dedicated multi-currency borrowing facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is US$160m 106m facility which expires at the end of April 2016.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.35% and 2.35% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than three times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenant and prepares detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2015, the groups net cash to adjusted EBITDA was 0.15 times and the committed undrawn facility available to the group was 106m given the loan was paid in full.
In the absence of any significant acquisitions, the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance before the facility expires in April 2016 and the group intends to replace it with a new borrowing facility, the amount and terms of which will depend on its expected borrowing requirements at the time.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experiences funding difficulties themselves.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 20 PRoVisioNs onerous lease other provision provisions total 000 000 000 At October 1 2014 1,929 2,939 4,868 Provision in the year 693 693 Release in the year 195 1,069 1,264 Used in the year 956 230 1,186 Exchange differences 62 7 69 At september 30 2015 840 2,340 3,180 Maturity profile of provisions: 2015 2014 000 000 Within one year included in current liabilities 835 2,164 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 463 Between two and five years included in noncurrent liabilities 2,345 2,241 3,180 4,868 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
Other provisions The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
21 deFeRRed TAxATioN The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2015 comprised: other income comprehensive exchange 2014 statement income equity differences 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 28,724 303 254 1,707 30,988 Tax losses 2,130 1,967 165 4,262 Financial instruments 315 581 266 Other short-term temporary differences 7,808 592 484 238 378 8,056 deferred tax 19,101 2,256 97 492 1,164 18,404 comprising: Deferred tax assets 20 Deferred tax liabilities 19,101 18,424 19,101 18,404 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 122 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21 deFeRRed TAxATioN continued other income comprehensive exchange 2014 statement income equity differences 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 other short-term temporary differences: Share-based payments 950 699 238 13 Pension deficit 956 79 484 393 Accelerated capital allowances 669 593 1,262 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions 5,233 777 378 6,388 total other short-term temporary differences 7,808 592 484 238 378 8,056 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2015 a deferred tax asset of 2.7m 2014: 2.1m has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2015 and 2030.
At the balance sheet date, the group has unused UK tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2015 a deferred tax asset of 1.6m 2014: nil has been recognised in relation to these losses.
There is no expiry date on these losses.
The directors are of the opinion, that based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 228.0m 2014: 181.0m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2015 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Under IFRS deferred tax is calculated at the tax rate that has been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Legislation was substantively enacted in October 2015, after the balance sheet date, to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% from April 1 2017 and for a further reduction from 19% to 18% from April 1 2020.
If UK deferred tax balances were to be revalued at these rates the impact would not be material.
22 CAlled uP shARe CAPiTAl 2015 2014 000 000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 128,248,894 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2014: 128,133,417 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 320 320 During the year, 115,477 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2014: 1,676,093 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 289 2014: 4,191 were issued following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 0.5m 2014: 0.3m.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 23 shARe-bAsed PAymeNTs The groups long-term incentive credit expense at September 30 comprised: 2015 2014 000 000 equity-settled options SAYE 102 144 CAP 2010 34 165 CAP 2014 2,057 2,057 1,989 2,036 cash-settled options CAP 2010 35 183 CAP 2014 466 466 Structured Retail Products Limited 48 501 331 2,490 2,367 The total carrying value of cash-settled options at September 30 included in the Statement of Financial Position is: 2015 2014 000 000 Current liabilities 71 147 Non-current liabilities 466 71 613 Equity-settled options The options set out on page 124 are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total credit recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 2.0m, representing 80% of the groups long-term incentive credit 2014: charge 2.0m, 86%.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 124 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 shARe-bAsed PAymeNTs continued Number of ordinary shares under option: 2015 weighted average market lapsed price at Granted exercised forfeited option date of during during during price exercise 2014 year year year 2015 Period during which option may be exercised: SAYE Between February 1 2015 and July 31 2015 106,243 106,243 4.97 10.43 Between February 1 2016 and July 31 2016 53,851 1,955 7,840 44,056 6.39 11.24 Between February 1 2017 and July 31 2017 60,523 680 12,861 46,982 9.17 10.99 Between February 1 2018 and July 31 2018 152,917 22,360 130,557 8.15 CAP 2010 Before September 30 2020 tranche 2 55,421 6,599 7,889 40,933 0.0025 10.47 CSOP 2010 Before February 14 2020 UK 279 279 6.03 CAP 2014 1 Before September 30 2023 2,097,363 2,097,363 0.0025 CSOP 2014 Before September 30 2023 UK 400,512 400,512 11.16 Before September 30 2023 Canada 116,519 116,519 11.16 2,890,711 152,917 115,477 51,229 2,876,922 The options outstanding at September 30 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of 2.62 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.52 years.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 23 shARe-bAsed PAymeNTs continued 1 The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Cash-settled options The group has liabilities in respect of two share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as cash-settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 and the CAP 2014 scheme.
Share Option Schemes The company has three share option schemes for which an IFRS 2 Share-based payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 62.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
Save as You Earn SAYE options sAye 14 15 16 december 20 december 12 december 22 date of grant 2012 2013 2014 Market value at date of grant p 798 1,146 1,019 Option price p 639 917 815 Option life years 3.5 3.5 3.5 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 639 917 815 Risk-free rate 0.53% 0.53% 0.61% Dividend yield 2.31% 2.50% 2.29% Volatility 27% 22% 24% Fair value per option 1.93 2.42 2.34 The SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of three years.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 shARe-bAsed PAymeNTs continued Each CAP award comprises two elements an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company at an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The CAP options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The number of CSOP 2014 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2014 respectively.
The CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP award.
The CSOP 2014 options have an exercise price of 11.16, which will be satisfied by a 1 funding award mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25 pence CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of vesting.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2014 and the CAP 2014, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan.
1 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Exercise price excludes the effect of the funding award.
24 ACquisiTioN CommiTmeNTs ANd deFeRRed CoNsideRATioN The group is party to contingent consideration arrangements in the form of both acquisition commitments and deferred consideration payments.
The group recognises the discounted present value of the contingent consideration.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses to assess the impact on the fair value of the contingent consideration.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
Acquisition commitments deferred consideration 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 At October 1 13,365 15,037 8,503 11,646 Reduction from disposals during the year 269 2,214 Net movements in finance income and expense during the year note 7 4,748 1,298 2,851 1,873 Exercise of commitments 109 247 Paid during the year 111 11,558 2,738 Exchange differences to reserves 663 16 116 64 At september 30 9,171 13,365 589 8,503 Included in the movements of acquisition commitments and deferred consideration are fair value adjustments of 3.5m and 1.7m respectively for CIE for further detail see note 2.
Exchange differences to reserves were recorded within net exchange differences on translation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Reconciliation of finance income and expense note 7 : Acquisition commitments deferred consideration 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 Fair value adjustment during the year 5,727 2,682 2,617 800 979 1,384 234 1,073 Imputed interest Net movements in finance income and expense during the year 4,748 1,298 2,851 1,873 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 24 ACquisiTioN CommiTmeNTs ANd deFeRRed CoNsideRATioN continued Maturity profile of contingent consideration: Acquisition commitments deferred consideration 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 Assets Within one year included in current assets 331 354 258 1,532 In more than one year included in non-current assets 589 1,886 liabilities Within one year included in current liabilities 2,088 10,389 In more than one year included in non-current liabilities 9,171 11,277 9,171 13,365 10,389 Net liabilities assets 9,171 13,365 589 8,503 There is a deferred tax asset of nil 2014: 40,000 related to the acquisition commitments.
The value of the acquisition commitments and deferred consideration is subject to a number of assumptions.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under the acquisition contingent consideration arrangements is as follows: 2015 2014 maximum minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 NDR 40,121 37,404 Insider Publishing 11,653 TTI Vanguard 4,026 5,582 CIE 40,121 58,665 The potential undiscounted amount of all future receipts that the group could receive under the disposal contingent consideration arrangement is as follows: 2015 2014 maximum minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 MIS Training 330 3,466 II Newsletters 258 The discounted acquisition commitment and deferred consideration are based on pre-determined multiples of future profits of the businesses, and have been estimated on an  basis using available performance forecasts.
The directors derive their estimates from internal business plans and financial due diligence.
At September 30 2015, the weighted average growth rates used in estimating the expected profits range was 23%.
A one percentage point increase or decrease in growth rate in estimating the expected profits, results in the acquisition commitment at September 30 2015 increasing or decreasing by 0.1m with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2015 charged to the Income Statement in future periods.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 128 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25 oPeRATiNg leAse CommiTmeNTs At September 30 the group had committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2015 2014 000 000 Within one year 6,749 9,804 Between two and five years 19,671 21,558 After five years 26,388 26,810 52,808 58,172 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2015 2014 000 000 Within one year 1,614 1,195 Between two and five years 2,882 2,646 After five years 1,114 5,610 3,841 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: DMGT PensionSaver and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT but is accounted for in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme.
In compliance with legislation the group operates a defined contribution plan, DMGT PensionSaver, into which relevant employees are automatically enrolled.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2015 2014 000 000 DMGT Pension Plan PensionSaver 1,991 1,780 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 16 15 Private schemes 1,020 967 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 89 90 3,116 2,852 Euromoney PensionSaver and Euromoney Pension Plan During the year the Euromoney PensionSaver was amalgamated into the DMGT PensionSaver together with other DMGT group PensionSaver arrangements.
DMGT PensionSaver is a group personal pension plan and is the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
Employees are able to contribute a minimum of 2% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
Assets are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes continued The Euromoney Pension Plan was part of the DMGT Pension Trust, an umbrella trust under which DMGT UK trust-based defined contribution plans were held.
The benefits for all members of this scheme were transferred to individual policies held in the members own name during 2014.
This process was completed in November 2014 and the scheme was formally wound up.
Insured death benefits previously held under this trust have also been transferred to a new trust-based arrangement specifically for life assurance purposes.
Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
The plans assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
Private schemes Institutional Investor LLC contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 50% of salary maximum of US$52,000 a year with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 6% of salary.
Harmsworth Pension Scheme The Harmsworth Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT.
The scheme is closed to new entrants.
Existing members still in employment can continue to accrue benefits in the scheme on a cash balance basis, with members building up a retirement account that they can use to buy an annuity from an insurance company at retirement.
Full actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
As a result of the valuations of the main schemes as at March 31 2013, DMGT makes annual contributions of 12% or 18% of members basic pay depending on membership section.
In addition, in accordance with the agreed recovery plan, DMGT made payments of 23.2m in the year to September 30 2015.
In February 2014 DMGT agreed with the trustees that should it continue its share buy-back programme it would make payments to the schemes amounting to 20% of the value of shares bought back.
Contributions of 14.4m relating to this agreement were made in the year to September 30 2015.
DMGT enabled the trustee of the scheme to acquire a beneficial interest in a Limited Partnership investment vehicle LP.
The LP was designed to facilitate payment of part of the deficit funding payments described above over a period of 15 years to 2026.
In addition, the LP is required to make a final payment to the scheme of 150.0m or the funding deficit within the scheme on an ongoing actuarial valuation basis at the end of the 15 year period if this is less.
For funding purposes, the interest held by the trustee in the LP is treated as an asset of the scheme and reduces the actuarial deficit within the scheme.
However, under IAS 19 Employee Benefits the LP is not included as an asset of the scheme and therefore is not included in the calculation of the deficit.
The group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme.
The scheme is operated on an aggregate basis with no segregation of the assets to individual participating employers and, therefore, the same contribution rate is charged to all participating employers i. e. the contribution rate charged to each employer is affected by the experience of the schemes as a whole.
The scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme by the group.
This means that the pension charge reported in these financial statements is the same as the cash contributions due in the period.
The groups pension charge for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for the year ended September 30 2015 was 89,000 2014: 90,000.
The expected cash contribution for the year to September 30 2016 is 70,000.
There are six active Euromoney members in the scheme, out of a total of 728 active members.
DMGT is required to account for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme under IAS 19.
The IAS 19 disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts of DMGT have been based on the formal valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2013, and adjusted to September 30 2015 taking account of membership data at that date.
The calculations are adjusted to allow for the assumptions and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19.
These showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 1,915.3m 2014: 1,820.5m and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 91.6% 2014: 90.0% of the benefits that had accrued to members also calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 130 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes continued Defined benefit scheme Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme The company operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS, a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new entrants.
A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position is shown in the following table: 2015 2014 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 34,452 36,218 32,479 31,431 Fair value of plan assets deficit reported in the statement of financial Position 1,973 4,787 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 0.4m 2014: asset 1.0m.
The movements in the defined benefit liability over the year is as follows: Present Net defined value of fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2015 2015 2015 2015 000 000 000 At September 30 2014 36,218 31,431 4,787 Current service cost 57 57 Interest expense income 1,363 1,193 170 total charge recognised in income statement 1,420 1,193 227 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 45 45 Gain due to change in demographic assumptions 2,447 2,447 Gain due to change in financial assumptions 19 19 total gains losses recognised in statement of comprehensive income 2,466 45 2,421 Contributions - employers 620 620 Payments from the plans benefit payments 720 720 At september 30 2015 34,452 32,479 1,973 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes continued Present Net defined value of Fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2014 2014 2014 2014 000 000 000 At September 30 2013 32,702 29,819 2,883 Current service cost 55 55 Interest expense income 1,380 1,260 120 total charge recognised in income statement 1,435 1,260 175 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 1,363 1,363 Loss from changes in demographic assumptions 774 774 Loss from changes in financial assumptions 3,184 3,184 Experience gain 298 298 total losses gains recognised in statement of comprehensive income 3,660 1,363 2,297 Contributions employers 568 568 Contributions plan participants 12 12 Payments from the plans benefit payments 1,591 1,591 At september 30 2014 36,218 31,431 4,787 The major categories and fair values of plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Equities 10,853 9,117 Bonds 18,923 19,977 With profits policy 2,567 2,050 Cash and cash equivalents 136 287 32,479 31,431 All the assets listed above excluding cash and cash equivalents have a quoted market price in an active market.
The assets do not include any of the groups own financial instruments nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the group.
The actual return on plan assets was 1.1m 2014: 2.6m.
The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2013 adjusted to September 30 2015 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted are as follows: 2015 2014 Discount rate 3.7% p. a.
Pension increase in deferment 2.8% p. a.
Pension increases in payment: Pensions earned from June 1 2002 to June 30 2006 2.8% p. a.
Pensions earned from July 1 2006 2.8% p. a.
The discount rate for scheme liabilities reflects yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 132 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes continued The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is approximately 21 years 2014: 21 years.
Assumed life expectancy in years, on retirement at 62 2015 2014 Retiring at the end of the reporting year: Males 25.1 26.3 Females 26.9 28.6 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting year: Males 27.3 29.6 Females 29.2 31.9 Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The sensitivity of the defined obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: change in change in Assumption assumption liabilities Discount rate increase by 0.1% decrease by 2.0% Rate of inflation increase by 0.1% increase by 0.5% Rate of salary growth increase by 0.25% increase by 0.1% Life expectancy increase by one year increase by 3.0% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice it is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions has been estimated by projecting the results of the last full actuarial valuation as at June 1 2013 forward to September 30 2015.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
Through the MBPS, the group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The actual investment strategy adopted by the trustees is not to be fully invested in corporate bonds and holds a significant proportion of equities which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while providing volatility and risk in the short term.
As the plans mature, the group tends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value in the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation: therefore, higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by inflation or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also decrease the deficit.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
An increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liabilities.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 26 ReTiRemeNT beNeFiT sChemes continued Life expectancy The present value of the defined pension plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in life expectancy will increase the plans liabilities.
A full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation of the MBPS was completed as at June 1 2013.
As a result of the valuation, the company agreed to make annual contributions of 38.9% per annum of pensionable salaries, plus 42,400 per month to the scheme.
The next triennial is due to be completed as at June 1 2016.
The group considers that the contributions set at the last valuation date are sufficient to eliminate the deficit and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase significantly.
The group expects to contribute approximately 0.5m 2014: expected contribution in 2015 of 0.5m to the MBPS during the 2016 financial year.
Expected maturity analysis of discounted pension benefits: term to retirement within Between Between over Pensioners 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Proportion of total liabilities funding basis 55.7% 0.6% 5.0% 8.0% 30.7% 27 CoNTiNgeNT liAbiliTies Claims in Malaysia Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgit 82.6m 12.4m.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
28 RelATed PARTy TRANsACTioNs The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i.
The group had borrowings under a US$160m multi-currency facility with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group company, as follows: 2015 2015 2014 2014 us$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts owing under US$ facility at September 30 62,486 38,543 Amounts owing under GBP facility at September 30 7,895 Amounts due under current account facility at September 30 1,234 761 61,252 45,677 Fees on the available facility for the year 733 417 The loan was fully paid at September 2015.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 134 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 RelATed PARTy TRANsACTioNs continued ii.
On August 3 2015 the company entered into a deposit agreement with DMGH: 2015 2015 2014 2014 us$000 000 US$000 000 Deposits denominated in US$ at September 30 1,787 1,182 8,617 Deposits denominated in GBP at September 30 1,787 9,799 iii.
During the year the group expensed services provided by DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Services expensed 849 503 iv.
During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts payable 1,787 1,626 Tax losses with tax value 2,383 2,168 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 313 387 v. DMGT group companies have an agreement to surrender tax losses to Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts payable 226 Tax losses with tax value 302 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 202 226 vi.
During the year, in an arms length transaction, the group sold a property to Mintel Limited for a consideration of 2.3m.
N Berry, a director of DMGT, owns 97% of Mintel Limited through a family holding.
NF Osborn serves as an advisor to the boards of both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received a combined fee of US$18,600 2014: US$23,638.
During the year the group received dividends from its associate undertakings: 2015 2014 000 000 Capital NET Limited 123 291 32 GGA Pte.
Limited 123 323 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 28 RelATed PARTy TRANsACTioNs continued ix.
The directors who served during the year received dividends of 0.2m 2014: 0.2m in respect of ordinary shares held in the company.
The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
Key management compensation 2015 2014 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12,276 13,119 Non-executive directors fees 223 223 Post-employment benefits 278 268 12,777 13,610 Of which: Executive directors 7,596 8,977 Non-executive directors 223 223 Divisional directors 4,958 4,410 12,777 13,610 Details of the remuneration of directors is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
29 eVeNTs AFTeR The bAlANCe sheeT dATe A board meeting was held on November 18 2015 and a number of board changes were implemented as proposed by the nominations committee.
The nominations committee agreed that: the chairman of the board be changed to a non-executive role and that JC Botts be appointed as the non-executive chairman in an interim capacity until such time as the company appoints a permanent independent non-executive chairman: A Rashbasss role as executive chairman be changed to the new role of chief executive officer: A Rashbass to step down as chairman of the nominations committee and JC Botts to replace A Rashbass as chairman of the nominations committee until an independent non-executive chairman has been appointed: CHC Fordham to step down from the nominations committee: and the number of executive directors on the board to reduce and accordingly CHC Fordham, NF Osborn, JL Wilkinson, fide Alfano and B AL-Rehany not to seek re-election at the companys next AGM in January 2016.
The directors propose a final dividend of 16.40p per share 2014: 16.00p totalling 20.7m 2014: 20.2m for the year ended September 30 2015.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the AGM to be held on January 28 2016.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September302016.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 136 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30 ulTimATe PAReNT uNdeRTAkiNg ANd CoNTRolliNg PARTy Rothermere Continuation Limited RCL is a holding company incorporated in Bermuda.
The main asset of RCL is its 100% holding of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT Ordinary Shares.
RCL has controlled DMGT for many years and as such is DMGTs immediate parent company.
RCL is owned by a trust which is held for the benefit of The Viscount Rothermere and his immediate family.
The trust represents the ultimate controlling party of the company.
Both RCL and the trust are administered in Jersey, in the Channel Islands.
RCL and its directors, and the trust and its beneficiaries, are related parties of the company.
The immediate parent of the company is DMG Charles Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of DMGT.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of DMGT, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of its report and accounts are available from: The company secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
co. uk 31 lisT oF subsidiARies In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries and partnerships, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned included in these consolidated financial statements at September 30 2015 are disclosed below: Proportion Principal activity country of company held and operation incorporation Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Investment holding company United Kingdom ABF 1 Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom ABF 2 Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom Adhesion Asia Limited 100% Events Hong Kong Adhesion Group S. A.
100% Events France Asia Business Forum Singapore Pte Ltd 100% Dormant Singapore Asia Business Forum Thailand Limited 100% Dormant Thailand Asia Business Forum SDN.
BHD 100% Dormant Malaysia BCA Research, Inc. 100% Research and data services Canada Benchmark Financials Ltd 100% Dormant Colombia BPR Associados Limitada 100% Dormant Colombia BPR Benchmark Limitada 100% Dormant Colombia Bright Milestone Limited 100% Investment holding company Hong Kong Business Forum Group Holdings Ltd 100% Dormant Thailand CEIC Data - Internet Securities Japan K. K 100% Information services Japan CEIC Data SG Pte Ltd 100% Information services Singapore CEIC Data Shanghai Co Ltd 100% Information services China CEIC Data Thailand Co Ltd 100% Information services Thailand CEIC Data Korea Limited 100% Information services Korea CEIC Holdings Limited 100% Information services Hong Kong CEICdata.
com Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100% Information services Malaysia Centre for Investor Education UK Limited 75% Investment holding company United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education Pty Limited 75% Events Australia EII Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EIMN LLC 100% Events US Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Events Singapore 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 Proportion Principal activity country of company held and operation incorporation Euromoney Canada Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Charles Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney ESOP Trustee Ltd 100% Dormant United Kingdom Euromoney Global Limited 99.7% Publishing and events United Kingdom Euromoney Guarantee Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom Euromoney Holdings US, Inc 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing, training and events Jersey Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Euromoney Luxembourg S. a. r. l 100% Investment holding company Luxembourg Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Polska SP Zoo 100% Information services Poland Euromoney Publications Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Euromoney Trading Limited 99.7% Publishing, training and events United Kingdom Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US Family Office Network Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom GGA Pte.
Limited 100% Events Singapore Glenprint Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Global Commodities Group Sarl 100% Events Switzerland GSCS Benchmarks Limited 99.7% Dormant United Kingdom Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. 100% Publishing US HedgeFund Intelligence Limited 99.7% Dormant United Kingdom Insider Publishing Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing and events US Institutional Investor Networks UK Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Internet Data Services I Pvt Ltd 100% Information services India Internet Securities BVI Ltd 100% Dormant Colombia Internet Securities Argentina S. A.
100% Dormant Argentina Internet Securities Brazil Ltda 100% Information services Brazil Internet Securities Bulgaria EOOD 100% Information services Bulgaria Internet Securities fide Chile Ltda 100% Information services Chile Internet Securities fide Mexico SDeRLdeCV 100% Information services Mexico Internet Securities Egypt Ltd 100% Information services Egypt Internet Securities Hong Kong Ltd 100% Information services Hong Kong Internet Securities Istanbul Bilgi Merkezi Ltd STI 100% Dormant Turkey Internet Securities Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Internet Securities Magyarorszag Kft 100% Dormant Hungary Internet Securities Shanghai Limited 100% Information services China Internet Securities, Inc. 100% Information services US ISI Emerging Markets, South Africa Pty Ltd 100% Dormant South Africa Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Ned Davis Research, Inc. 84.5% Research and data services US Redquince Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Steel First Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Storas Holdings Pte Ltd 100% Dormant Singapore Tipall Limited 100% Property holding United Kingdom TTI Technologies LLC 100% Events US 100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
Euromoney Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is United Kingdom.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 138 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31 lisT oF subsidiARies continued All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
A list of associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements is disclosed in note 13.
For the year ended September 30 2015, the following subsidiary undertakings of the group were exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: company registration company number Euromoney Canada Limited 01974125 Euromoney Charles Limited 04082590 EII Ventures Limited 05885797 Euromoney Partnership LLP 0C363064 Fantfoot Limited 05503274 Internet Securities Limited 02976791 Redquince Limited 05994621 Steel First Limited 04002471 Family Office Network Limited 08667050 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8
