com DEFINITIONS OF SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow represents EBITDA, net of non-cash items, less changes in working capital, income tax paid, interest paid and covenant reset charges, conversion premiums, premiums on early repurchase of bonds and realised gain losses on interest payments under swap contracts, interest income and debt issue costs, less capital expenditure, including recorded in financing activities, purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, proceeds from sale of disposals classified as held for sale, net of transaction costs, less purchases of treasury shares for participants of the incentive plans, plus other cash flows from investing activities.
Free Cash Flow is not a measure under IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZs calculation of Free Cash Flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
EBITDA EBITDA is determined as a segments profit loss from operations adjusted for social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses, impairment of assets, profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, foreign exchange gains losses and depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense.
In 2015, management changed the definition of segment expense and EBITDA to make these indicators more comparable with the Russian steel peers.
Starting from the 2015 consolidated financial statements segment expense does not include social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses and profit loss from operations is adjusted for these expenses in arriving at EBITDA.
As a result, the Group restated EBITDA based on both IFRS and management accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
See note 3 of the consolidated financial statement on page 182 for additional information.
Cash and short-term bank deposits Cash and short-term bank deposits is not a measure under IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of cash and short-term bank deposits may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
Calculation of cash and short-term bank deposits, US$ million 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 1,375 1,086 Cash of disposals classified as held for sale Collateral under swaps 7 Cash and short-term bank deposits 1,375 1,093 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 255 Additional information Total debt Total debt represents the nominal value of loans and borrowings plus unpaid interest, finance lease liabilities, loans of assets classified as held for sale, and the nominal effect of cross-currency swaps on principal of rouble-denominated notes.
Total debt is not a measure under IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of total debt may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
The current calculation is different from that used for covenant compliance calculations.
Calculation of total debt, US$ million 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Long-term loans, net of current portion 5,850 5,470 Short-term loans and current portion of long-term loans 497 761 Add back: Unamortised debt issue costs and fair value adjustment to 47 37 liabilities assumed in business combination Nominal effect of cross-currency swaps on principal of rouble- 325 635 denominated notes Finance lease liabilities, including current portion 5 4 TOTAL DEBT 6,724 6,907 Net debt Net debt represents total debt less cash and liquid short-term financial assets, including those related to disposals classified as held for sale.
Net debt is not a measure under IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of net debt may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
Calculation of net debt, US$ million 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 TOTAL DEBT 6,724 6,907 Short-term bank deposits - - Cash and cash equivalents 1,375 1,086 Cash of assets classified as held for sale - - Collateral under swaps - 7 NET DEBT 5,349 5,814
