Notes to the Group financial statements 154 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 continued 31.
Share incentive plans a Cost of share-based compensation 2015 2014 US$m US$m Share awards 42 66 Share options 5 4 Expense recognised all equity settled 47 70 Cost of associated social security obligations 4 6 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 51 76 The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Further information on share award arrangements is given in note b below.
As the numbers of options granted or outstanding under share option plans and the related charge to the Group income statement are not significant, no further disclosures are included within these financial statements.
b Share awards i Summary of arrangements and performance conditions There are three plans under which share awards are currently granted the two Experian Co-Investment Plans the Experian CIPs and the Experian Performance Share Plan the Experian PSP.
Awards take the form of a grant of shares which vest over a service period of three years, with a maximum term generally of the same length, and are settled by share distribution.
The assumption at grant date for employee departures prior to vesting is between 5% and 10% for conditional awards and 20% for certain unconditional awards which are only made under the Experian PSP.
Other details in respect of conditional awards are given below.
Performance conditions for vesting Assumed outcome at grant date Experian CIPs 50% Benchmark profit performance of Group Benchmark profit 67% to 93% assessed against specified targets 50% Cumulative operating cash flow of Group Cumulative operating cash flow 76% to 100% Experian PSP 75% Benchmark profit performance of Group Benchmark profit 67% to 93% assessed against specified targets 25% Distribution percentage determined by ranking TSR Range from 45% to 52% Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a comparator group Experian CIPs For the purposes of IFRS 2, the grant date for these plans is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome assumed at the date of their issue to participants and is recognised over a four-year period.
The range of performance conditions for awards under this plan is set out below.
The Benchmark profit performance condition the profit condition requires Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
The cumulative operating cash flow performance condition the cash flow condition is based on cumulative operating cash flow over a three-year period.
As noted in the Annual report on remuneration, that condition for the year ended 31 March 2013 was reviewed during the year ended 31 March 2015 and is now as set out below.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
These are not marketbased performance conditions as defined by IFRS 2.
Profit condition Cash flow condition Year of award Target Maximum Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2015 7% per annum 14% per annum US$4.0bn US$4.4bn Year ended 31 March 2014 7% per annum 14% per annum US$3.8bn US$4.2bn Year ended 31 March 2013 7% per annum 14% per annum US$3.4bn US$3.7bn Experian PSP The range of Benchmark profit performance conditions for conditional awards under this plan is the same as those shown in the table immediately above for the Experian CIPs and also requires Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
The TSR performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation, with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three-year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc ordinary shares.
