Financial statements 169 Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 A.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented voluntarily and: prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with UK accounting standards: presented in US dollars, the Companys local currency: and designed to include disclosures in line with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under UK accounting standards even though the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey.
There has been no change in this information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies are set out below.
These have been consistently applied to both years presented.
i Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
ii Investments shares in group undertakings Investments in group undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
The fair value of share incentives issued by the Company to employees of group undertakings is accounted for as a capital contribution and recognised as an increase in the Companys investment in group undertakings, with a corresponding increase in total shareholders funds.
iii Debtors and creditors Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value.
Where the time value of money is material, they are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Creditors are initially recognised at fair value.
iv Tax Current tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in Ireland, where the Company is resident.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and is determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing differences reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
v Own shares The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
In connection with these, shares in the Company are held by The Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan.
The assets, liabilities and expenses of these separately administered trusts are included in the financial statements as if they were the Companys own.
The trusts assets mainly comprise Experian shares and such shares are shown as a deduction from total shareholders funds at cost.
Shares in the Company purchased and held as treasury shares, in connection with the above plans and any share buyback programme, are also shown as a deduction from total shareholders funds at cost.
Contractual obligations to purchase own shares are recognised at the net present value of expected future payments.
Gains and losses in connection with such obligations are recognised in the profit and loss account.
vi Profit and loss account format Income and charges are reported by nature in the profit and loss account, as this reflects the composition of the Companys income and cost base.
Income and costs are recognised on an accruals basis.
