Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 155 ii Information on share grant valuations Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award, with no modification for dividend distributions or other factors as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2015 had a weighted average fair value per share of 10.26 2014: 12.02. iii Share awards outstanding 2015 2014 million million At 1 April 17.4 19.9 Grants 4.7 5.4 Forfeitures 1.5 0.6 Lapse of awards 0.2 Vesting 5.6 7.3 At 31 March 14.8 17.4 Analysis by plan: Experian CIPs 5.2 6.3 Experian PSP conditional awards 4.1 6.2 Experian PSP unconditional awards 5.5 4.9 At 31 March 14.8 17.4 32.
Post-employment benefit arrangements and related risks An overview of the Groups post-employment benefit arrangements and the related risks is given below.
a Funded pension arrangements The Groups principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme, which provides benefits for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in 2009.
This plan has rules which specify the benefits to be paid, with the level of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement dependent on age, length of service and salary.
At the latest valuation date there were 269 active members of this plan, 1,780 deferred members and 3,155 pensioner members.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Retirement Savings Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Under this plan, employee and employer contributions are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund and used to fund member pensions at their retirement.
There were 3,392 active members of this plan at 31 March 2015.
Both UK plans are governed by trust deeds, which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
Trustees are responsible for the oversight of the investments and funding of the plans and plan administration.
Employees in the USA and Brazil have the option to join locally provided defined contribution plans and currently there are 4,222 active members in the USA and 1,427 in Brazil.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
A full actuarial funding valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme is carried out every three years, with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2013 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
There was a small deficit at the date of that valuation.
b Unfunded pension arrangements The Group has had unfunded pension arrangements in place for a number of years, designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers in the UK who are affected by the earnings cap are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
There are also unfunded arrangements for one current director of the Company and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc.
Certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK have been secured by the grant of charges to an independent trustee over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group and reported as available-for-sale financial assets note 28 a. c Post-retirement medical benefits The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement medical benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement medical benefits for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
