Independent auditors report 108 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Experian plcs Group and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows and the Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited Experian plcs financial statements comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2015: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Company profit and loss account for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in total equity and Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: US$50m, which represents 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
We conducted work on three key reporting units.
Materiality These three reporting units, together with the corporate function and consolidation at the Group level, where we also conduct audit procedures, accounted for approximately 86% of the Groups revenue and 93% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We focused on: Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning.
Areas of focus Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment in respect of the Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA and Asia Pacific cash generating units CGUs.
