Notes to the Group financial statements 118 Financial statements N No ot te es t s to t o th he G e Gr ro ou up f p fi in na an nc ci ia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s f fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 M 1 Ma ar rc ch 2 h 20 01 15 5continued 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group.
Experian is the leading global information services group.
The Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market Premium Listing.
There has been no change in this information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are: prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations together EU-IFRS : prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities: presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and generally rounded to the nearest million: prepared using the principal exchange rates set out in note 9: and designed to include disclosures in line with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Companys own financial statements are again prepared under UK accounting standards.
There has been no change in the above information since the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgment is required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group financial statements, are highlighted in note 5.
The going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing these financial statements as the Board formed a judgment, at the time of approving these financial statements, that there was a reasonable expectation that the Group had adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Board took account of: current and forecast trading performance which is the subject of detailed comment in the Strategic report: current and anticipated levels of borrowings and the availability of committed borrowing facilities: and exposures to and management of financial risks, which are detailed in the notes to these financial statements.
Recent accounting developments There have been no accounting standards, amendments and interpretations effective for the first time in these financial statements and which have had a material impact on the financial statements.
The information below is a summary of other recent external accounting developments.
We routinely review these and adapt our financial reporting systems and processes as appropriate.
Other than IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, none of these developments is currently expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for the first time for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2015: Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: employee contributions: Annual improvements to IFRSs 20102012 cycle: and Annual improvements to IFRSs 20112013 cycle.
