Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 167 41.
Contingencies a Brazil credit scores As indicated in the 2014 annual report, the Group had received a significant number of claims in Brazil, primarily in three states, relating to the disclosure and use of credit scores.
In November 2014, The Superior Tribunal of Justice, the highest court in Brazil for such cases, determined the principal legal issues involved and ruled that the cases had no merit under Brazilian law.
Whilst elements of the legal process have yet to be exhausted, the directors do not believe that the outcome of any such claims will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that may be unfavourable to the Group.
b Tax As previously indicated, Serasa has been advised that the Brazilian tax authorities are challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation arising from its acquisition by Experian in 2007.
The possibility of this resulting in a liability to the Group is believed to be remote, on the basis of the advice of external legal counsel and other factors in respect of the claim.
In addition, in the normal course of business, the Group has a number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom we are in active dialogue.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgmental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
c Other litigation and claims There continue to be a number of pending and threatened litigation and other claims involving the Group, across all its major geographies, which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such claims will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal, regulatory and administrative proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that may be unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes, the Group may benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Related party transactions a Subsidiary undertakings and associates Significant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2015 are shown in note P to the Company financial statements.
There were no individually material associates during the current or prior year.
b Remuneration of key management personnel 2015 2014 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 6 7 Retirement benefits 1 Share incentive plans 10 12 16 20 Key management personnel comprises the Companys executive directors and further details of their remuneration packages are given in the parts of the Annual report on remuneration described as subject to audit.
There were no other material transactions with the Group in which the key management personnel had a personal interest in either the current or prior year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 19.
