Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 125 5.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are summarised below.
Revenue recognition is excluded from this summary on the grounds that the policy adopted in this area is sufficiently objective.
Tax note 16 The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom we are in active dialogue.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgmental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
significant judgment is required in determining the related assets or provisions, as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional tax will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, the differences will affect the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets based on forecasts of future profits against which those assets may be utilised.
Goodwill note 20 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if there is an indication that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations, which require the use of cash flow projections based on approved financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted profit margin based on past performance and its expectations for the markets development.
Cash ows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five-year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the CGUs markets.
The discount rates used reflect the CGUs pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments note 29 The Group uses valuation techniques to determine the fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market.
Management uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions, or uses observable market-based inputs, that are mainly based on market conditions at each balance sheet date.
b Critical judgments In applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments are in respect of intangible assets and contingencies: Intangible assets Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and 20 years for acquisition intangibles.
Further details of the amounts of, and movements in, such assets are given in note 21.
Contingencies In the case of pending and threatened litigation claims, management has formed a judgment as to the likelihood of ultimate liability.
No liability has been recognised where the likelihood of any loss arising is possible rather than probable.
