F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Shareholder Information Dividends Change of Address Ordinary dividends are paid monthly.
Shareholders who wish to have Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held dividends paid directly into a bank account rather than by cheque on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or other to their registered address can complete a mandate form for the amendment this should be notified to Computershare Investor purpose.
Mandates may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the signature of the registered St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
Where dividends are paid holder.
directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent to shareholders registered addresses.
Website Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Share Price Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the Main Market of Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
Additional information the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in the Financial regarding the Company may also be found on its website which is: Times under Investment Companies and in other newspapers.
Stated after application of a 10 per cent discount to the value of the Companys investments in indirect property funds.
Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
62 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 63
