FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT NOTICE OF AGM STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT OTHER INFORMATION NOTIICE OF GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at the offices of Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands on Thursday, 2 June 2016 at 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
Ordinary Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 be received and approved.
That the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 be approved.
That Mr P C E Cornell, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr D E Preston, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Mrs T Clark, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That  CI LLP be appointed as auditor.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
That, to the extent required by sections 292 and 293 or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended from time to time : i the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares comprised in the share capital of the Company as described in the Companys articles of incorporation or grant options, warrants or other rights in respect of shares in the Company the Rights provided that this authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares or Rights to be granted in respect of shares with an aggregate nominal value of up to 799,366, being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 April 2016 and further provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted and the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in pursuance of such offer or agreement: and ii this authority is in substitution for all previous authorities conferred on the Directors in accordance with sections 292 or 293 or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended from time to time but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of Rights already made or offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Special Resolutions: 12.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities for cash, including by way of a sale of ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares, as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 58 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 59 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Notice of Annual General Meeting continued a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 799,366 being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 4 April 2016.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with Section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, to make market acquisitions within the meaning of Section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary Shares either for retention as treasury shares for future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 1p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue which the purchase is carried out: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, or on 2 December 2017, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That the articles of incorporation containing amendments proposed to reflect the recent changes to the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 by the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 Amendment Ordinance 2015 presented at the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the articles of incorporation of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of incorporation.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL 4 April 2016 60 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 61 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT NOTICE OF AGM STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT OTHER INFORMATION NOTIICE OF GENERAL MEETING Notes: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Limited, c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY not later than 12.30 pm on 31 May 2016.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting should he or she so wish.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members not later than close of business on 31 May 2016.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
As at 4 April 2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of shares with voting rights was 799,366,108, each carrying one voting right.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the existing Articles and the proposed new Articles marked to show the changes will be available during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY up to and including close of business on 2 June 2016 and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and up to the close of the meeting.
60 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 61
