Fidessa group plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Company financial statements The Company has presented separate financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
In publishing the financial statements the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes when the consolidated income statement has been presented.
The principal activity is that of a holding company.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 12th February 2016.
The directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties.
It has considerable financial resources and no borrowings.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the directors have a reasonable expectation that there are adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
2 Significant accounting policies The accounting policies as set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
3 Auditors fees 2015 2014 000 000 Audit of these financial statements 53 51 Review of the interim report 12 11 Total fees paid to the auditor 65 62
