Fidessa group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fidessa group plc Fidessa or the Company, is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 12th February 2016.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview, Business Model and Strategy, Market Review, Outlook and Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report.
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review and the notes to the financial statements.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include Fidessas objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business, the principal risks that could impact on Fidessas liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months and its current financial position, the Board believes that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Therefore, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The following standards and amendments have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, none of which had an impact on the consolidated or Companys financial statements: IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendments.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle various standards.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle various standards.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently in the consolidated and Company financial statements to all periods presented.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Fidessa group plc and its subsidiaries.
There are no associates or joint ventures.
Subsidiaries are entities where the parent company has control over when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred until the date on which control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
