Fidessa group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued p Trade payables Trade payables are stated at amortised cost.
q Employee share trusts The trusts and share plan trustees, which purchase and hold shares in connection with employee share plans, are included in the financial statements and presented as a deduction from equity.
Any consideration paid or received by them for the purchase or sale of the shares is shown as a movement in equity.
r Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows.
No provision is recognised when it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and instead a contingent liability is disclosed.
3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory and early adoption has not been applied.
IAS16 and IAS38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation amendments.
IAS16 and IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants amendments.
IAS27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendments.
IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendments.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS10 and IAS28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture amendments.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle various standards.
IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption amendments.
With the exception of IFRS15 and IFRS16 it is considered that the above standards and amendments will not have a significant effect on the consolidated or Company results or net assets.
IFRS15 will become effective in January 2018.
A detailed evaluation of its potential impact has commenced but it is too early to determine whether adoption of the standard will have significant effect on reported results and financial position.
IFRS16 was published in January 2016 and will become effective in January 2019.
4 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions take account of the circumstances and facts at the period end, historical experience of similar situations and other factors that are believed to be reasonable and relevant, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
The principal estimates and judgements are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all uncertainties, estimates and judgements encountered and others could arise that cause a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets or liabilities.
Fidessa group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 a Revenue Fidessas recurring revenue model means that the majority of revenue is recognised on a systematic basis.
However, at any time there is likely to be a limited number of implementations and contract amendments underway where there is uncertainty over the value of revenue to recognise or defer.
In these situations a range of factors relevant to the situation are considered in order to determine the value of revenue recognised or deferred.
These factors typically include the contractual terms, delivery progress and anticipated remaining effort required, technical complexity and risk, uncertainties still to be resolved and the customers circumstances.
b Product development expenditure Fidessa invests on a continual basis in the development of new and enhanced features in the product suite.
The rolling programme of product development results in there not being defined end dates for elements of the product suite.
Therefore, judgement is required in determining the practice for capitalising and amortising development costs.
It is impractical to determine when individual components are complete or first used because of the continual development programme.
Therefore, amortisation is applied from the time of development and it is estimated that its effect on the carrying value of product development is not material.
These estimates and judgements have been applied consistently year to year.
The accounting policy for research and product development is in note 2j and the carrying value of product development capitalised and the amounts capitalised and amortised in the year are detailed in note 13. c Income taxes Fidessa operates internationally and therefore spans several tax jurisdictions.
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities estimates have to be made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain and on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The circumstances to which the estimates and judgements apply and their application has been consistent year to year.
In determining the level of accruals and provisions to be recognised in respect of any potential exposures for various tax liabilities, the directors make estimates of the level of taxes payable, particularly in relation to transfer pricing, non-deductible items and outcomes of tax disputes.
The tax obligations, if audited by the tax authorities at a future date, may differ as a result of alternative interpretations.
These differences may also impact the level of accruals and provisions recognised.
d Fair values IFRSs require many assets, liabilities and expenses to be recognised at fair value.
This includes intangible assets note 13 and share-based payments note 19.
Where open market values are not available the fair values are estimates and therefore subject to assumptions and a wide range of interpretation.
e Impairment of goodwill The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a calculation to be made of the value in use of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated and this calculation to be compared to the carrying value of the cash generating unit.
The value in use calculation includes estimates of the future financial performance of the cash generating unit, the discount rate to apply to projected future cash flows, long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates note 13.
Variations in these estimates could result in a material variance in the value in use resulting from the calculation.
