Fidessa group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued p Trade payables Trade payables are stated at amortised cost.
q Employee share trusts The trusts and share plan trustees, which purchase and hold shares in connection with employee share plans, are included in the financial statements and presented as a deduction from equity.
Any consideration paid or received by them for the purchase or sale of the shares is shown as a movement in equity.
r Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows.
No provision is recognised when it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and instead a contingent liability is disclosed.
3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory and early adoption has not been applied.
IAS16 and IAS38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation amendments.
IAS16 and IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants amendments.
IAS27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendments.
IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendments.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS10 and IAS28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture amendments.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle various standards.
IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption amendments.
With the exception of IFRS15 and IFRS16 it is considered that the above standards and amendments will not have a significant effect on the consolidated or Company results or net assets.
IFRS15 will become effective in January 2018.
A detailed evaluation of its potential impact has commenced but it is too early to determine whether adoption of the standard will have significant effect on reported results and financial position.
IFRS16 was published in January 2016 and will become effective in January 2019.
4 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions take account of the circumstances and facts at the period end, historical experience of similar situations and other factors that are believed to be reasonable and relevant, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
The principal estimates and judgements are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all uncertainties, estimates and judgements encountered and others could arise that cause a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets or liabilities.
