Shar eholder information Annual General Meeting Shareholder enquiries The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 1.30pm The Companys share register is maintained by the Companys Registrar, onThursday 16 July 2015 at Norwood Hall Hotel, Garthdee Road, Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should Aberdeen AB15 9FX, United Kingdom.
contact Equiniti directly using one of the methods listed below.
Registrar The Notice of Annual General Meeting and Form of Proxy are Equiniti Limited enclosedwith this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Notice of Aspect House AnnualGeneral Meeting can also be found on the FirstGroup Spencer Road website www.
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Electronic shareholder communications Tel: 0871 384 2046 or from overseas on Tel: 44 0 121 415 7050 FirstGroup uses its website www.
com as its primary Online: help.
co. uk from here, you will be able to securely means of communication with its shareholders provided that the email Equiniti with your enquiry.
shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Telephone lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
communications may be sent or supplied in that manner.
Electronic communications allow shareholders to access information instantly Duplicate shareholder accounts aswell as helping FirstGroup reduce its costs and its impact on the If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may indicate environment.
Shareholders that have consented or are deemed to that more than one account is held in your name on the register.
This haveconsented to electronic communications can revoke their happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ consentat any time by contacting the Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
If you believe more than one account exists in your name you may contact the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, to request that the Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications online by accounts are combined.
There is no charge for this service.
registering with Shareview, the internet based platform provided by ShareGift Equiniti.
In addition to enabling shareholders to register to receive If shareholders have a small number of shares and the dealing costs communications by email, Shareview provides a facility for orthe minimum fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is possible shareholders to manage their shareholding online by allowing them to: todonate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free Q receive trading updates by email: service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More Q information on this service can be found at www.
org or by view their shareholdings: calling 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Q update their records, including change of address: FirstGroup plcs policy on discounts for shareholders Q view payment and tax information: and Shareholders are reminded that it is not Group policy to offer travel or Q vote in advance of company general meetings.
other discounts to shareholders, as they may be used only by a small number of individuals.
The Group is focused on overall returns which To nd out more information about the services offered by Shareview, are of benefit to all shareholders.
Unsolicited telephone calls and correspondence Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to Electronic voting buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Shareholders can submit proxies for the 2015 Annual General Meeting These are typically from overseas based brokers who target US or UK electronically by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or appointments must be received by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, high risk shares.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms no later than 1.30pm on Tuesday 14 July 2015 or not less than 48 and the brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
hours before the time xed for any adjourned meeting.
Shareholders are advised to deal only with financial services rms that are Corporate website authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You can checka A wide range of information on FirstGroup is available at the FirstGroup rm is properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting website www.
If you do deal with an unauthorised rm, you Q financial information annual and half-yearly reports as well as willnot be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services tradingupdates: Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
For more detailed Q share price information current trading details and historical charts: information on how you can protect yourself from an investment scam, or Q shareholder information Annual General Meeting results, details of to report a scam, go to www.
uk consumers scams report-scam or the Companys advisers and frequently asked questions: and call 0800 111 6768.
Q news releases current and historical.
Half-yearly results The half-yearly results, to be announced on the London Stock Exchange, inNovember 2015, will continue to be available on the Companys website inthe form of a press release and not issued to shareholders in hard copy.
Shareholders that have signed up for electronic shareholder communication will be sent a notication when these are available on the FirstGroup website www.
174 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015
