Fidessa group plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In managing currency risks the aim is to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the cash inflows and outflows in a foreign currency.
There are both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a high level of natural hedge.
Hedging contracts have not been entered into for cash positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer term, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidation of foreign subsidiaries earnings.
It is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in the value of sterling against other currencies would have decreased the profit before tax by approximately 208,000 for the year ended 31st December 2015 2014: 197,000.
Capital management The Board monitors the total equity, distributable reserves and the cash and cash equivalents balance in considering its retained capital along with when and how a return of capital to shareholders is appropriate.
A strong capital base is maintained so as to provide employee, customer, market, investor and creditor confidence in the business and to ensure that it continues to operate as a going concern.
Fidessa has strong cash generation due to being consistently profitable and non-acquisitive in nature.
The annual dividend has a pay-out ratio of approximately 45% which provides a reasonable return to shareholders whilst also providing funds for potential acquisitions and replenishing the cash balance.
However, in the absence of acquisitions, Fidessa has a track record of returning the additional cash to shareholders in the form of special dividends.
Fair values Unless otherwise disclosed, there is no significant difference between the carrying values shown in the balance sheet and the fair values of the financial instruments.
For current trade and other receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the amortised cost is deemed to reflect the fair value.
Fidessa does not have any derivative financial instruments and therefore no analysis is required in respect of financial instruments not measured at fair value.
22 Operating leases At 31st December the outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Less than one year 17,415 16,768 Between one and five years 50,987 53,569 More than five years 42,487 48,015 Total commitment under operating leases 110,889 118,352 Office space and data centre facilities are leased under operating leases.
The lease term typically ranges from three years to 20 years, longer term leases normally having options to break the commitment before the end of the term.
Lease terms of greater than five years are often subject to a rent review during the term.
Part of the office space was sublet to an entity outside of the Fidessa group and the rent from this is reflected as other operating income in the consolidated income statement.
