2 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena.
231 Fresnillo plc Additional information Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam Preliminary Statement 1 March 2016 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA First Quarter Production Report 13 April 2016 using the form at www.
uk scams where you can also review Annual General Meeting 3 May 2016 the latest scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Interim Statement 2 August 2016 Third Quarter Production Report 12 October 2016 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. Dividend payment schedule 2015 Final Dividend Record Date 22 April 2016 For further information, please visit our website: 2015 Final Dividend Payment Date 9 May 2016 www.
com or contact: 2016 Interim Dividend Record Date 12 August 2016 Fresnillo plc 2016 Interim Dividend Payment Date 9 September 2016 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Registrar Sponsor and Corporate Broker Equiniti Ltd JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Forward-looking statements Aspect House 25 Bank Street This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, Spencer Road, Lancing London E14 5JP forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the United Kingdom terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, Joint Corporate Broker intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other Registered office Merrill Lynch International variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, 21 Upper Brook Street 2 King Edward Street plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forwardLondon W1K 7PY London EC1A 1HQ looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They United Kingdom United Kingdom appear in a number of places throughout this document and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, Corporate headquarters Solicitor beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Calzada Legaria No.
549 Linklaters LLP Groups results of operations, financial position, liquidity, prospects, Torre 2, Piso 11 One Silk Street growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By their nature, Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo London EC2Y 8HQ forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 11250 Mexico, D. F. United Kingdom relate to future events and circumstances.
Mexico Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance Auditor and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and Ernst & Young LLP liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which 1 More London Place the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, or London SE1 2AF suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this United Kingdom document.
In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the Share fraud warning industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forwardShare fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue looking statements contained in this document, those results or and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an developments may not be indicative of results or developments in inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters subsequent periods.
A number of factors could cause results and operating in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
While high profits developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general their money.
Most victims are experienced investors, losing on economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, average 20,000. commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the Groups Protect yourself ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, political and reports, take these steps before handing over any money: economic uncertainty.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from to ensure they are authorised.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak 3.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the only as of the date of this document, reflect the Groups current view firm.
with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future 4.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing Investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this business with.
document which could cause actual results to differ before making an 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not have applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
