Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6 of the Parent Company accounts the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles group companies is disclosed in note 28.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 29 February 2016.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Groups operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-forsale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
During 2015, there were no amendments to existing accounting policies.
New standards, interpretations and amendments new standards adopted by the Group During 2015 there were no new standards adopted by the Group.
New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2015 had no impact in the financial information of the Group.
152 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards that it considers will be applicable to the Groups financial statements, when they become effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, when the IASB finalises their amendments to defer the effective date of IFRS 15 by one year.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019: earlier application is permitted.
However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted.
The Group has not early adopted this standard: however, management has reviewed the aggregation level in the financial statements including disclosures in notes, considering the new guidance on materiality.
The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 7 require disclosure of information that will allow users to understand changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
This includes changes arising from i cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings: and ii non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets.
The IASB have issued other amendments to standards that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
153 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: Determination of functional currencies, note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of projects status, note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Stripping costs, note 2 e : The Group incurs waste removal costs stripping costs during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations.
During the production phase, stripping costs production stripping costs can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future.
The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met.
Significant judgement is required to distinguish between development stripping and production stripping and, within production stripping, to distinguish between the portion that relates to the extraction of inventory and that which relates to the creation of a stripping activity asset.
Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, it identifies the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation.
An identifiable component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
Significant judgement is required to identify and define these components, and also to determine the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped and ore to be mined in each of these components.
These assessments are undertaken for each individual mining operation based on the information available in the mine plan.
The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons.
These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
Once production stripping costs have been identified, judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset s for each component.
The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component of the ore body is the most suitable production measure.
Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the unit-of-production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset s. Qualifying assets, note 2 e : All interest-bearing loans are held by the Parent Company and were not obtained for any specific assets acquisition, construction, or production.
Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally.
Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are directly attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group.
Contingencies, note 27 By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
154 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2 e : Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining properties: mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code 2012.
Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs, along with geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body.
As the economic assumptions used may change and as additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change.
Such changes may impact the Groups reported balance sheet and income statement including: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, those cash flows consider both ore reserves and mineral resources: Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-ofproduction method based on ore reserves: Capitalised stripping costs recognised in the income statement as either part of mine properties or as part of inventory or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios: determination of stripping ratios is based on ore reserves and resources: Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur: The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes in the judgements regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2 e and 13: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine production.
Estimated useful lives of other assets is based on the expected usage of the asset.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used.
Silverstream, note 15: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management.
The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 32.
Assessment of recoverability of assets and impairment charges, note 2 f : The recoverability of an asset requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 l and 22: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Income tax, notes 2 r and 11: Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
155 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued d Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Parent Companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 1 Mining properties and development costs 16 Other assets 3 1 Depreciation of mining properties and development costs are determined using the unit-of-production method.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained, pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost.
156 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced, is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Stripping costs In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies stripping activity.
During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine the stripping activity asset and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mines units of production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine.
At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping.
Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria are met: It is probable that the future economic benefits improved access to an ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group: The Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved: and The costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably.
If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they are incurred.
Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production.
This measure is known as component stripping ratio, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan.
The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the unit-of-production method.
The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually.
Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement.
The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion depreciation, less impairment, if any.
Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans.
Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan.
The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including, but not limited to the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
f Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
157 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to disposal.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
g Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held to maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Group adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information, refer to note 21.
158 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore, a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is fide-recognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
h Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
159 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued i Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
j Short-term investments Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments.
Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables.
k Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
l Provisions Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
m Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
The plan is denominated in Mexican pesos.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA Standard & Poors and AAA-mex Fitch Ibca credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets other than amounts reflected in net interest cost is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
160 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur.
Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
n Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
o Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d There is a substantial change to the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
161 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued p Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotation period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement.
Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges.
The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised.
The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles.
The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions.
The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax.
Other income Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
q Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life: and Exploration expenses: Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves: and Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
r Taxation Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted, or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates.
162 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Mining rights The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right note 11.
Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable: When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
s Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
163 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk, these are included in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
t Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
u Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 31 and 32.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
164 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 31. v Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board as appropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
Segment reporting For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has six reportable operating segments represented by six producing mines as follows: The Fresnillo mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, the worlds largest primary silver mine: The Saucito mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine: The Cienega mine, located in the State of Durango, an underground gold mine: including the San Ramon satellite mine: The Herradura mine, located in the State of Sonora, a surface gold mine: The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the State of Sonora, a surface gold mine: and The Noche Buena mine, located in State of Sonora, a surface gold mine.
The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of Sales and Gross Profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines.
The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to Gross Profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2015 and 2014, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
165 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment reporting continued Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively: Year ended 31 December 2015 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 11 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Buena Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 265,347 459,904 154,334 395,417 165,518 3,866 1,444,386 Inter-segment 78,622 78,622 Segment revenues 265,347 459,904 154,334 395,417 165,518 78,622 74,756 1,444,386 2 Segment profit 149,986 219,045 71,094 7,995 295,219 26,706 65,925 14,322 805,659 Hedging 28,589 Depreciation and amortisation 331,209 Employee profit sharing 12,791 Gross profit as per the income statement 433,070 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Capital expenditure 205,573 119,743 24,632 108,276 2,649 13,819 474,692 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$142.8 million.
2 Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
3 Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development and stripping activity asset but excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
4 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, the construction of San Julian project, and purchase of mine equipment.
5 Capital expenditure consists of surface mine stripping activity, construction of second beneficiation plant Merrill Crowe, construction of leaching pads and purchase of mine equipment.
6 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work and purchase of mine equipment.
7 During 2015, this segment did not operate due the Bajio conflict note 27.
8 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work expansion of flotation plant and mine equipment.
9 Capital expenditure consists of construction of leaching pads and purchase of land.
10 Capital expenditure consists of the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and exploration expenditures capitalised, including Juanicipio project, and expansion of administrative office.
11 Other includes inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2014 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 11 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Buena Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 394,644 341,409 191,553 323,398 162,596 101 1,413,701 Inter-segment 71,443 71,443 Segment revenues 394,644 341,409 191,553 323,398 162,596 71,443 71,342 1,413,701 2 Segment profit 271,878 170,299 96,961 8,203 235,015 25,832 58,524 20,063 830,243 Hedging 1,118 Depreciation and amortisation 295,452 Employee profit sharing 12,619 Gross profit as per the income statement 521,054 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Capital expenditure 175,875 63,119 37,890 114,438 20,887 13,365 425,574 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$131.4 million.
5 Capital expenditure consists of surface mine stripping activity, final phase of the construction of the dynamic leaching plant and purchase of land.
6 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, purchase of mine equipment and construction of employees facilities.
7 During 2014, this segment did not operate due the Bajio conflict note 27.
As a result of the Bajio dispute, the site was remediated and certain fixed assets were dismantled for a net amount of US$ 16.9 million notes 9 and 13.
8 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, the construction of Saucito II plant and mine equipment.
9 Capital expenditure consists of construction of leaching pads and expansion of beneficiation plant.
10 Capital expenditure consists of the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and exploration expenditures capitalised, including Juanicipio project, mine equipment purchased by Minera El Bermejal and expansion of administrative office.
11 Other includes inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. The presentation of other and adjustments and eliminations have been changed to be consistent with the presentation in the 2015 table above.
166 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 4.
Group information The list of the Companys subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements and its principal activities are showed in the Companys separate financial statements.
a Material partly-owned subsidiaries As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, there are no material partly-owned subsidiaries.
Non-controlling interests showed in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 include US$24,969 thousand corresponding to partly-owned subsidiaries where the non-controlling interest has subsequently been purchased, as explained in note 4 b below.
Condensed financial information relating to partly-owned subsidiaries for the period were as follows: Summarised income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 The following amounts relate to the results before the Group acquired the non-controlling interest in the subsidiaries see note 4 b. Minera Desarrollo Proveedora fide Minera el Penmont, S fide Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. R. L. fide C. V. Revenue 632,079 427,963 32,257 53,374 Loss profit before income tax 16,503 87,454 3,849 27,073 Income tax credit charge 3,175 35,054 2,486 8,035 Loss profit for the year for continuing operations 13,328 52,400 1,363 19,038 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 13,328 52,400 1,363 19,038 Attributable to non-controlling interests 5,864 23,056 600 8,377 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Summarised cash flow information for the year ended 31 December 2014 The following amounts relate to the results before the Group acquired the non-controlling interest in the subsidiaries see note 4 b. Minera Desarrollo Proveedora fide Minera el Penmont, S fide Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. R. L. fide C. V. Operating 25,272 26,655 26,067 11,034 Investing 13,247 64,990 27,404 1,370 Financing 47,844 39,985 804 10,900 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 9,325 1,650 2,141 1,504 b Transactions with non-controlling interests On 6 October 2014, the Group acquired the remaining 44% of the issued shares of Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. fide R. L. fide C. V, Proveedora fide Equipos Fresne, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. together referred to as Penmont, for a purchase consideration of US$450,540 thousand including acquisition expenses.
After the transaction, the Group holds 100% of the equity share capital of the previously mentioned companies.
The carrying amount of the non-controlling interest in Penmont on the date of acquisition was US$426,652 thousand.
The Group derecognised the non-controlling interest of US$426,652 thousand and recorded a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of US$23,844 thousand.
To determine the amount of non-controlling interest corresponding to the above mentioned subsidiaries, the Group used the figures as of 30 September 2014, due to the fact that there were no material transactions from that date to the date of purchase.
The effect of the changes in the ownership interest in Penmont on the equity attributable to owners of the Group during 2014 is summarised as follows: Minera Desarrollo Proveedora fide Minera el Penmont, S fide Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. S fide R. L. fide C. V. R. L. fide C. V. Total Carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired 222,557 64,216 93,488 46,390 426,651 Consideration paid to non-controlling interest 171,791 54,065 120,294 104,390 450,540 Deficit excess of consideration paid recognised in parents equity 50,766 10,151 26,806 58,000 23,889 During 2015, the Group did not carry out any transactions with any non-controlling interest that resulted in changes to the ownership of a subsidiary.
167 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
a Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 691,096 777,560 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 626,446 504,000 Zinc concentrates containing zinc, silver and by-products 81,184 70,695 Precipitates containing gold and silver 45,660 61,446 1,444,386 1,413,701 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining.
b Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges, is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 617,434 714,928 Gold 828,476 720,536 Zinc 73,018 58,076 Lead 68,277 51,581 Value of metal content in products sold 1,587,205 1,545,121 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 142,819 131,420 1 Total revenues 1,444,386 1,413,701 1 Includes provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives resulting in a gain of US$2.3 million 2014: gain of US$2 million and hedging gain of US$3.9 million 2014: gain of US$0.1 million.
For further detail, refer to note 2 p. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce 2 Gold 1,126.5 1,257.7 2 Silver 15.6 18.6 2 Revenue of products sold does not include hedging gains.
168 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 6.
Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation notes 2 e and 13 331,209 295,452 Personnel expenses note 8 80,567 81,256 Maintenance and repairs 94,837 88,180 Operating materials 135,059 136,694 Energy 117,908 132,540 Contractors 175,898 219,622 Freight 9,821 11,764 Insurance 5,042 6,567 Mining concession rights and contributions 10,853 9,860 Other 15,211 14,318 Cost of production 976,405 996,253 Losses on foreign currency hedges 28,589 1,118 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 1,309 122,289 Inventory write down note 16 5,013 17,565 1,011,316 892,647 7.
Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 105,161 129,443 Administrative services 6,907 8,598 Mining concession rights and contributions 15,684 14,595 Personnel expenses note 8 5,748 5,614 Assays 2,788 3,509 Maintenance and repairs 384 686 Operating materials 416 809 Rentals 1,874 3,912 Energy 454 608 Other 830 1,010 140,246 168,784 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Cinega and Saucito mines, the San Ramon satellite mine and the San Julian, Orisyvo, Rodeo, Guanajuato and Centauro Deep projects.
In addition, exploration expenses of US$8.4 million 2014: US$6.8 million were incurred in the year in projects located in Peru.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally trade payables incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Groups operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 917 3,545 Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash outflows related to exploration activities 142,874 165,461 169 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8.
Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees profit sharing 12,791 12,619 Salaries and wages 36,544 38,572 Bonuses 10,713 10,410 Legal contributions 12,644 13,757 Other benefits 8,084 7,967 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,464 2,070 Social security 5,310 5,233 1 Post-employment benefits 4,572 4,349 Other 8,262 8,953 101,384 103,930 1 Post-employment benefits include US$1.6 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan 2014: US$1.5 million.
a Personnel expenses are reflected in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales note 6 80,567 81,256 Administrative expenses 15,069 17,060 Exploration expenses note 7 5,748 5,614 101,384 103,930 b The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 No.
Mining 1,560 1,406 Plant concentration 552 475 Exploration 519 655 Maintenance 755 694 Administration and other 976 600 4,362 3,830 9.
Other operating income and expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: Rentals 166 313 Other 612 267 778 580 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: 1 Maintenance 1,098 1,966 Donations 714 435 Environmental activities 4,022 371 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 3,757 1,791 2 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 16,912 Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 982 Engineering and design studies 974 Other 3,189 3,665 16,650 26,122 1 Costs relating to Compaa Minera las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. 2 Corresponds to Soledad and Dipolos fixed assets, note 13 170 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 10.
Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 1,779 4,364 1 Fair value movement on derivatives 61,224 1,464 Other 2,835 1,632 65,838 7,460 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 35,969 44,421 Unwinding of discount on provisions 8,586 8,725 Other 908 1,470 45,463 54,616 1 Principally relates to the time value associated with Gold commodity options, see note 31 for further detail.
Income tax expense a Major components of income tax expense: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 118,410 130,029 Amounts over underprovided in previous years 29,093 4,872 89,317 134,901 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 31,373 39,746 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 8,316 23,116 39,689 16,630 Corporate income tax 129,006 118,271 Special mining right Current: 1 Special mining right charge 6,384 910 6,384 910 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,574 14,790 Special mining right 13,958 15,700 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 142,964 133,971 1 Without regard to credits permitted under the special mining right SMR regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$14.6 million 2014: US$10 million.
However, the SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payables.
During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2015, the Group credited US$8.2 million 2014: US$9.1 million of mining concession rights against the SMR.
Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$17 million 2014: US$16 million and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses.
Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess.
171 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Income tax expense continued Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net charge credit arising on losses gains on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 7,927 974 Net charge credit arising on unrealised gains losses arising on valuation of cash flow hedges 11,856 3,531 Net credit charge arising on unrealised losses gains on available-for-sale financial assets 3,522 7,145 Net credit arising on cash flow gains reclassified to value of other assets 66 Net credit arising on remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 361 296 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 15,900 2,278 b Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Groups statutory income rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 212,354 251,065 Tax at the Groups statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 63,706 75,319 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,983 2,749 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 2,626 13,051 Current income tax over underprovided in previous years 1,142 735 1 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 77,473 53,388 Non-taxable non-deductible foreign exchange losses 5,437 84 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 3,250 2,348 Deferred tax asset not recognised 3,025 1,808 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 4,187 4,710 Other 1,539 4,465 Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 60.7% 2014: 47.1% 129,006 118,271 Special mining right 13,958 15,700 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 67.3% 2014: 53.4% 142,964 133,971 1 Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment.
c Movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability 279,046 277,972 Income statement charge credit arising on corporate income tax 39,689 16,630 Income statement charge arising on special mining right 7,574 14,790 Exchange difference 14 636 Net charge related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income 15,900 2,278 Closing net liability 342,195 279,046 172 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 11.
Income tax expense continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, considering the nature of the temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables 124,719 148,112 23,393 90,960 Other receivables 469 2,714 2,245 1,517 Inventories 121,668 144,146 21,602 124,344 Prepayments 830 883 17,551 1,933 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 137,396 95,080 44,468 23,102 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax 330,939 285,281 38,313 49,981 Operating liabilities 19,871 42,171 35,674 37,241 Other payables and provisions 58,643 46,141 12,502 8,039 Losses carried forward 88,593 50,736 37,857 2,967 Post-employment benefits 2,049 1,951 98 169 Deductible profit sharing 3,740 4,682 312 1,386 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 21,065 23,862 1,965 13,014 Available-for-sale financial assets 756 5,147 4,391 295 Other 4,192 4,569 365 223 Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax 283,672 228,097 Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax 39,378 16,629 Related party receivables arising from special mining right 15,207 16,778 1,571 16,778 Inventories arising from special mining right 9,616 11,896 2,280 11,896 Property, plant and equipment arising from special mining right 52,932 46,067 6,865 9,907 Net deferred tax liability 342,195 279,046 Deferred tax charge credit 46,952 1,840 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 30,814 57,705 Deferred tax liabilities continuing operations 373,009 336,751 Net deferred tax liability 342,195 279,046 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
On the basis of managements internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$295.3 million 2014: US$169.1 million.
To the extent unutilised, US$12.0 million will expire within five years and US$283.3 million will expire between six and ten years.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$23 million 2014: US$15 million on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits.
d Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,449 million 2014: US$1,528 million.
e Corporate Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR and Special Mining Right SMR The Groups principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
As part of the income tax reform in Mexico enacted at the end of 2013 and effective 1 January 2014, the tax law changed in respect of the treatment of certain mining-related expenditure for tax purposes.
As at 31 December 2014, there was uncertainty in relation to the tax treatment of certain expenditure incurred in the year.
As a result, in calculating the tax provision as at 31 December 2014, the Group deducted only a portion of the total related expenditure incurred in the year.
A deferred tax asset in respect of the remaining future tax benefit was also recognised.
Subsequent to the approval of the Annual Report 2014, management performed further analysis of this expenditure ahead of submitting tax computations and concluded that this expenditure incurred in 2014 is deductible in full for tax purposes.
The Group has submitted tax computations for 2014 on this basis.
As a result, the Group has reflected a reduction of US$29.1 million in current tax in respect of previous periods.
There is a corresponding increase in the deferred tax expense and, therefore, no impact on the total effective tax rate.
173 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Income tax expense continued The SMR is considered as income tax under IFRS, and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities.
The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable The 7.5% tax applies to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR.
This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year.
Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
As of 31 December 2015 and 2014, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 70,523 108,449 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 51,119 54,511 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$27.7 million gain US$19.4 million net of tax 2014: US$77.1 million loss US$53.9 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
2015 2014 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,894 736,894 2015 2014 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.096 0.147 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.069 0.074 174 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 13.
2 The Company re-assessed its plans for the Soledad and Dipolos operations and decided to write-off the carrying value of certain property, plant and equipment that could not be utilised or reassigned, or remains at the site and is no longer considered to have a future economic benefit to the Group.
The net charge for the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$ nil 2014: US$16.9 million and is reflected in other operating expenses.
The table below details construction in progress by segment: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 2,312 22,382 Herradura 36,868 24,339 Soledad-Dipolos 101 Noche Buena 3,354 4,183 Cienega 13,280 19,839 Fresnillo 438,973 299,590 Other 66,836 61,885 561,623 432,319 During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group capitalised US$11.1 million borrowing costs within construction in progress 2014: US$2.7 million.
Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% 2014: 5.78%.
175 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD computation of their recoverable amount.
Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs.
For both models management used price assumptions of US$1,200 ounce and US$18 ounce 2014: US$1,250 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Management consider that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment.
As at 31 December 2015 the carrying amount of Herradura mine is US$654.2 million and Noche Buena mine is US$118.8 million 2014: Cienega mine US$240.5 million and Noche Buena mine US$141 million.
The following table sets out the approximate expected impairment which would be recognised in 2015 and 2014 at hypothetical decreases in commodity prices: Decrease in commodity prices Herradura Cienega Noche Buena Year ended 31 December Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 Low sensitivity 5% 10% High sensitivity 10% 20% 131,625 4,738 2014 Low sensitivity 5% 10% 18,033 High sensitivity 10% 20% 127,124 37,986 14.
Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 86,078 63,245 Fair value change 14,636 22,833 Ending balance 71,442 86,078 At 31 December 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group.
This decrease has been consistent during the past 12-month period, which is considered to be prolonged, therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement 2014: US$1.0 million.
The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years one to five and $5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $5.10 per ounce 2014: $5.05 per ounce.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2015 total proceeds received in cash were US$39.4 million 2014: US$58.7 million of which, US$6.9 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2014 2014: US$8.1 million.
Cash received in respect of the year of US$32.5 million 2014: US$50.6 million corresponds to 3.6 million ounces of payable silver 2014: 4.1 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2015, a further US$2.8 million 2014: US$6.9 million of cash corresponding to 317,521 ounces of silver is due 2014: 638,681 ounces.
The US$27.7 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement 2014: US$77.1 million gain resulted from the updating of assumptions used to value the Silverstream contract.
The most significant of these were an increase of the Sabinas mine silver reserves, the decrease of the reference discount rate LIBOR and the difference between the payments already received in 2015 and payments estimated in the valuation model as of 31 December 2014.
These were partially offset by an increase of the spread used to calculate the discount rate and a decrease in the forward price of silver which was lower than the previous year.
176 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 15.
Silverstream contract continued A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 392,276 372,846 Cash received in respect of the year 32,456 50,650 Cash receivable 2,769 6,974 Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 27,720 77,054 Balance at 31 December 384,771 392,276 Less Current portion 26,607 33,311 Non-current portion 358,164 358,965 See note 31 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 32 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset, and note 2 c for the estimates and assumptions.
Inventories As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 1,711 2,094 2 Work in progress 251,900 252,826 Operating materials and spare parts 73,104 70,904 326,715 325,824 3 Accumulated write-down of work in progress inventory 22,578 17,565 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 3,562 2,647 Balance at 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 300,575 305,612 Less - Current portion 224,200 221,200 4 Non-current portion 76,375 84,412 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
2 Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads.
3 Corresponds to ore inventory of Noche Buena and Soledad-Dipolos mines resulting from net realisable value calculations.
4 The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date.
Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,001.0 million 2014: US$846.4 million.
The amount of write down of inventories and allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$5.9 million 2014: US$18.2 million.
177 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Trade receivables from related parties note 28 115,805 139,620 Value Added Tax receivable 99,948 106,903 Advances and other receivables from contractors 13,641 22,589 Other receivables from related parties note 28 2,769 7,015 Loans granted to contractors 2,595 2,866 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 759 6,009 Other receivables 2,775 2,911 238,292 287,913 Provision for impairment of other receivables 300 318 Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 237,992 287,595 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 2,289 3,853 2,289 3,853 240,281 291,448 1 Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$ 0.5 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$ 2.9 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
Loans granted to contractors bear interest of between LIBOR plus 1.5% and LIBOR plus 3% and mature over two years.
The total receivables denominated in US dollars were US$127 million 2014: US$167 million, and in pesos US$113.3 million 2014: US$124.4 million.
As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2015 is US$0.3 million 2014: US$0.3 million.
In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the creditworthiness of the counterparty, see note 32 b.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments The Group considers cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives.
As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 4,104 3,979 Short-term deposits 377,316 150,361 Cash and cash equivalents 381,420 154,340 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Short-term investments 118,718 295,000 Short-term investments are made for fixed periods no longer than four months and earn interest at fixed rates without an option for early withdrawal.
As at 31 December 2015 short-term investments are held in fixed-term bank deposits of US$118,718 31 December 2014: US$295,000.
178 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 19.
Equity Share capital and share premium Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number At 1 January 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to ordinary shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the pre-IPO reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
Net unrealised gains losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
Retained earnings accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
179 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2015 1 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 3.0 22,107 2 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 Year ended 31 December 2014 3 Final dividend for 2013 declared and paid during the year 6.8 50,109 4 Interim dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 5.0 36,845 11.8 86,954 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2014 and paid on 22 May 2014.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 August 2014 and paid on 11 September 2014.
Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the notes.
Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 796,160 795,306 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 872 854 Closing balance 797,032 796,160 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
Provision for mine closure cost The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits.
The discount rate used in the calculation of the provision as at 31 December 2015 is in a range of 4.65% to 7.13% 2014: range of 3.22% to 7.51%.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing and the discount foreign exchange and inflation rates applied.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from 4 to 21 years from 31 December 2015 3 to 19 years from 31 December 2014.
As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 153,802 127,008 Increase to existing provision 48,680 30,922 Effect of changes in discount rate 7,341 3,051 Unwinding of discount 8,586 8,725 Payments 452 Foreign exchange 22,933 15,452 Closing balance 195,476 153,802 180 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 23.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan.
The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each non-unionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers contributions, capped at 8% of the employees annual salary.
The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each workers earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers.
The overall investment policy and strategy for the Groups defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan.
However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded.
The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations.
The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific asset class risk in the risk profile.
Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements.
Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies.
The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: US$ thousands Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on Actuarial Actuarial Defined plan assets changes changes benefit excluding arising from arising from increase Balance at Past Sub-total amounts changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits included in demographic financial Experience Foreign included in Contributions personnel 31 December 2015 cost cost Interest Exchange in the year paid net interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange OCI by employer transfer 2015 Defined benefit obligation 33,664 1,024 1,981 5,085 2,080 1,031 577 1,160 170 1,567 45 32,165 Fair value on plan assets 19,826 1,121 2,954 1,833 758 706 706 1,065 37 17,631 Net benefit liability 13,838 1,024 860 2,131 247 273 706 577 1,160 170 2,273 1,065 8 14,534 US$ thousands Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on Actuarial Actuarial Defined plan assets changes changes benefit excluding arising from arising from increase Balance at Past Sub-total amounts changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits included in demographic financial Experience Foreign included in Contributions personnel 31 December 2014 cost cost Interest Exchange in the year paid net interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange OCI by employer transfer 2014 Defined benefit obligation 34,001 1,028 886 2,121 3,935 100 1,643 324 898 1,222 16 33,664 Fair value on plan assets 22,526 1,381 2,493 1,112 1,643 629 629 645 16 19,826 Net benefit liability 11,475 1,028 886 740 1,442 1,212 629 324 898 1,851 645 13,838 Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$8.6 million 2014: US$8.9 million relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are nil.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2015 2014 % % Discount rate 6.79 7.0 Future salary increases NCPI 5.0 5.0 181 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 20.2 and 23.4 years respectively 2014: 18.9 years for men and 22.4 for women.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 11.71 years 2014: 12.35 years.
The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 1,084 1,657 State-owned companies 3,017 2,191 Mutual funds fixed rates 13,530 15,978 17,631 19,826 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is as shown below: Life expectancy Assumptions Discount rate Future salary increases NCPI of pensioners Sensitivity Level 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 1 increase Decrease increase to the net defined benefit obligation US$ thousands 1,699 2,197 464 111 468 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 53,303 68,638 Other payables to related parties note 28 4,137 1,702 Accrued expenses 15,988 20,193 Other taxes and contributions 16,202 9,818 89,630 100,351 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 32.
Commitments A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating segment is as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 29,131 44,312 Herradura 13,897 9,236 Noche Buena 285 691 Cienega 7,685 2,290 Fresnillo 92,482 172,774 Other 2,029 4,927 145,509 234,230 182 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 26.
Operating leases a Operating leases as lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 1,984 4,434 After one year but not more than five years 487 3,710 2,471 8,144 b Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 2,720 7,143 After one year but not more than five years 3,115 2,724 5,835 9,867 As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 8,008 12,217 27.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2015, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
183 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Contingencies continued Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the pre-IPO reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law.
During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Groups financial statements as at 31 December 2015 and going forward.
In regard to the Ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009, five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of Soledad-Dipolos is located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Magistrate noted that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order is excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appears not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
Penmont has challenged the procedural order before Federal courts, who have indicated that the correct procedural time for filing such complaint should be when legal execution over lands comprising the Soledad-Dipolos pit is initiated currently the lands are in a judicial deposit pending final execution for delivery to claimants.
Penmont conducted mining activities on approximately 300 hectares of such lands and remediation activities in this respect are still pending.
In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajo agrarian community presented additional claims, including a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, claiming US$65 million in damages, alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land.
The claimants have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit.
Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora.
Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling is not probable.
In addition, claimants have presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
The Unitarian Agrarian Court has issued rulings declaring i such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void: ii and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area: and iii that Penmont must pay rent for occupying the land parcels whilst the claimants must reimburse Penmont the monies it originally paid for occupying such lands.
The rulings also make reference in this same context including remediation and return of minerals to the separate court case involving Soledad-Dipolos mentioned above.
Penmont has appealed these rulings since it is the owner of the mining concessions and all mining activities were conducted in accordance with Mexican law.
The ultimate result of the appeals process remains pending.
In regards the reference to SoledadDipolos within the scope of these land parcels cases, certain of these appeals have been decided for the Company, some against, whilst others remain pending.
However, any adverse court order involving minerals over lands where the Soledad-Dipolos pit is located would be subject to a further appeals process, as that was a separate legal file as described above.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajo matter including appeals that are pending as well as criminal complaints between the parties.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
184 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 28.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 and balances as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group.
a Related party balances Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 115,786 139,620 130 619 Other: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 2,769 6,974 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 366 866 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,804 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 916 Other 19 41 921 217 Subtotal 118,574 146,635 4,137 1,702 Less Current portion 118,574 146,635 4,137 1,702 Non-current portion Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 384,771 392,276 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 15. b Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peoles S. A.
B fide C. V. the Companys parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,458,413 1,413,600 Other income 982 1,047 Total income 1,459,395 1,414,647 1 Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties.
Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$142.8 million 2014: US$131.4 million and include sales credited to development project of US$17.9 million 2014: nil.
185 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Related party balances and transactions continued Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: 2 Administrative services: 3 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 23,655 22,080 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 17,701 18,545 41,356 40,625 Energy: Termoelectrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 20,332 30,917 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 6,713 27,045 30,917 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 6,368 4,667 Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 3,320 4,345 9,688 9,012 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 3,860 3,437 Property, plant and equipment Equipos Industriales Naica, S. A. fide C. V. 1,065 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 8,382 7,262 Other expenses: 2,693 7,821 Total expenses 94,089 99,074 2 Includes US$4.1 million 2014: US$4.7 million corresponding to expenses reimbursed.
3 Includes US$8.2 million 2014: US$7.7 million relating to engineering costs that were capitalised.
c Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 3,311 3,262 Post-employment benefits 257 148 Other benefits 379 600 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 3,947 4,010 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,859 4,902 This compensation includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
186 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 29.
Auditors remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 1,274 1,278 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 338 405 Audit-related assurance services 328 344 Tax compliance services 24 24 Tax advisory services 16 12 Other assurance services 25 Total 1,980 2,088 30.
Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 69,390 117,094 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 6 331,209 295,452 Employee profit sharing 8 13,170 12,885 Deferred income tax 11 47,263 1,840 Current income tax expense 11 95,701 135,811 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 9 3,757 1,791 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 9 16,912 Other losses gains 3,353 973 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 9 2,896 982 Net finance costs 41,913 48,721 Foreign exchange loss 18,991 19,103 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 314 1,211 Non-cash movement on derivatives 62,288 1,565 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 15 27,720 77,054 Working capital adjustments Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 58,219 105,242 Decrease in prepayments and other assets 891 2,068 Decrease increase in inventories 5,037 97,472 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 12,820 17,214 Cash generated from operations 588,648 385,098 Income tax paid 34,517 243,085 Employee profit sharing paid 11,237 20,379 Net cash from operating activities 542,894 121,634 187 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial instruments a Fair value category As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at Loans through OCI through profit fair value and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges 1 Trade and other receivables 127,224 Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 Silverstream contract note 15 384,771 Derivative financial instruments 1 117,074 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedges Interest-bearing loans 797,032 Trade and other payables 97,440 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 532 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivatives within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
As at 31 December 2014 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at Loans through OCI through profit fair value and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges 1 Trade and other receivables 173,722 Available-for-sale financial assets 86,078 Silverstream contract note 15 392,276 Derivative financial instruments 480 14,551 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedges Interest-bearing loans 796,160 Trade and other payables 70,340 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,911 Derivative financial instruments 27,033 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivatives within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
b Fair value measurement The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values, are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 86,078 71,441 86,078 Silverstream contract note 15 384,771 392,276 384,771 392,276 Derivative financial instruments 117,075 14,551 117,075 14,551 Financial liabilities: 1 Interest-bearing loans note 21 797,032 796,160 805,352 795,128 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 532 2,911 532 2,911 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 27,033 1,427 27,033 1 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
188 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 31.
Financial instruments continued The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2015 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 116,995 116,995 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 Silverstream contract 384,771 384,771 117,075 384,771 501,846 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 71,442 71,442 117,075 384,771 573,288 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 532 532 Options commodity contracts Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,427 1,427 1,427 532 1,959 As of 31 December 2014 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 14,229 14,229 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 322 322 Silverstream contract 392,276 392,276 14,551 392,276 406,827 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 86,078 86,078 86,078 14,551 392,276 492,905 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,911 2,911 Options commodity contracts 8,704 8,704 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 18,329 18,329 27,033 2,911 29,944 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
189 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial instruments continued A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is disclosed in note 15 is shown below: 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 2,911 1,154 Changes in fair value 11,511 15,489 Realised embedded derivatives during the year 13,890 13,732 Balance at 31 December 532 2,911 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
Option commodity contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the BlackScholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
Silverstream contract The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model for further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 15.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years.
Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated.
The fair value of the Silverstream contract is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 32.
Quoted investments Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Groups interest-bearing loan is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
190 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 31.
Financial instruments continued Embedded derivatives within sales contracts Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 p. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation.
At 31 December 2015 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$ 0.5 million 2014: US$ 2.9 million.
The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues.
c Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos and other currencies.
The Group also enters into option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2 s. Foreign exchange hedging The Group has entered into a number of forward derivative contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The outstanding forward derivative contracts as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 Contract value Contract 2015 Fair value Term Currency thousands exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2016 EUR 69 EUR1:US$1.09 to 0.3 EUR1:US$1.10 Swedish krona-denominated forward contracts 2016 SEK 14,463 SEK$8.41:US$1 0.6 The Groups euro-denominated forward derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016.
The Group also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016.
The Group also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 11 January 2016 to 8 August 2016.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$198 million with a range of floor prices from MX$14.00 to MX$16.82:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.92 and a range of capped prices from MX$17.25 to MX$19.50:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$18.26.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$1.8 million.
Forward derivative contracts that were outstanding as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 Contract value Contract 2014 Fair value Term Currency thousands exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2015 EUR 869 EUR1:US$1.25 to 121 EUR1:US$1.35 Swedish krona-denominated forward contracts 2015 SEK 41,597 SEK$7.19:US$1 to 359 SEK$7.62:US$1 The Groups euro-denominated forward derivative instruments matured on 13 March 2015 at a weighted average rate of US$1.35: 1.
These derivative instruments matured over a period from 13 March 2015 to 12 June 2015 with a weighted average rate of SKD$7.27:US$1.
Collar derivative instruments matured over the period from 12 January 2015 to 14 December 2015.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$259.5 million with a range of floor prices from MX$13.09 to MX$14.00:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$13.45 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$18.13:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.19.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2014 was an asset of US$1.2 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2014 was a liability of US$18.7 million.
191 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial instruments continued Commodity price hedging During 2014, the Group entered into gold ounce-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in commodity price as described in note 2 s for a total amount of 1,559,689 ounces.
As at 31 December 2015 the outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2019 and hedge cash proceeds for the sales of gold production amounting 1,257,516 ounces 2014: 1,524,276 ounces with a floor price of US$1,100:1 ounce and a range of capped prices from US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce these being the same for 2014 and weighted average price of US$1,426:1 ounce.
The fair value of the put options as at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$147.3 million 2014: US$111.8 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$35.1 million 2014: US$107.4 million.
In 2015 the changes in the fair value of the option contracts corresponding to the time value amounted to US$59.7 million 2014: US$4.4 million and were recorded in the income statement.
The Group also entered into lead tonnes-US dollar and zinc tonnes-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in commodity price.
Lead collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge lead production amounting 4,272 tonnes 2014: 2,261 tonnes with a floor price of US$1,985:1 tonne 2014: US$2,100:1 tonne and a range of capped prices from US$2,220 to US$2,310:1 tonne 2014: US$2,450 to US$2,550:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,259:1 tonne 2014: US$2,496:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$1.0 million 2014: US$0.6 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.085 million 2014: US$0.001 million.
Zinc collar derivate instruments mature over the period 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge zinc production amounting 4,536 tonnes 2014: 8,911 tonnes with a floor price of US$2,205:1 tonne 2014: range of floor prices of US$1,900 to US$2,200:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,100:1 tonne and a range of capped prices from US$2,535 to US$2,550:1 tonne 2014: US$2,400 to US$2,650:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,542:1 tonne 2014: US$2,534:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$2.7 million 2014: US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.02 million 2014: US$0.1 million.
The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on foreign exchange and price commodity derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in other comprehensive income for the year: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 9,946 721 Gains recycled to revenue during the year 2,167 3,027 Losses gains recycled to cost of sales during the year 28,589 220 Gains recycled to the value of other assets 220 Unrealised gains losses before tax arising during the year 39,521 11,771 Deferred tax effect recorded in other comprehensive income during the year 19,783 4,571 Ending balance 36,214 9,946 32.
Financial risk management Overview The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets, interestbearing loans and trade payables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
192 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 32.
Financial risk management continued a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts and the payment of dividends.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2015 see note 31 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase weakening of decrease decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 10% 4,235 7,809 10% 5,192 2,213 2014 15% 3,350 28,970 5% 616 11,513 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 5% 213 10% 78 2014 15% 515 10% 572 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase weakening of decrease decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 10% 10% 2014 5% 52 10% 105 193 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued Foreign currency risk Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% 1,622 10% 1,982 2014 5% 2,427 10% 2,966 Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold price, see mentioned in note 2 s. The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales.
Increase decrease in commodity prices Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% 51,326 50,764 10% 15% 25% 15% 52,915 136,469 2014 10% 20% 15% 10% 93,922 791 10% 20% 10% 15% 49,405 49,612 Commodity price risk Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2015 20% 104,659 15% 78,494 2014 20% 103,125 20% 103,125 194 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 32.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
Interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 2,525 10 505 2014 25 1,140 10 456 The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
Interest rate risk Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 17,853 10 3,729 2014 25 15,067 10 3,123 Inflation rate risk Inflation rate risk Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December inflation rate US$ thousands 2015 100 389 100 382 2014 100 697 100 680 195 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Increase increase increase decrease in decrease decrease Year ended 31 December equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 50% 35,721 30% 5,135 16,297 2014 60% 51,157 40% 16,983 17,632 b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 28, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables as disclosed in note 17.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty, Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2015 and 2014.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating.
The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing in a number of financial institutions.
Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 61% of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which 96% was held in shortterm Mexican government paper.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 14 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 18 for short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents and note 28 for related party balances with Met-Mex.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2015, being US$384.8 million 2014: US$392.2 million.
196 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 32.
Financial risk management continued c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans note 21 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,137 Trade and other payables 57,440 57,440 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 532 532 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Interest-bearing loans note 21 46,267 92,534 92,534 985,068 1,216,403 Trade and other payables 70,340 70,340 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 261,051 261,051 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 2,911 2,911 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 23,620 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Inflows 239,238 239,238 Outflows 261,051 261,051 Net 21,813 21,813 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2016 as at 31 December 2015 and in 2015 as at 31 December 2014, either by the Group or counterparty.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-forsale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Group, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream contract.
