Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 5.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 29 February 2016.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
b Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
New standards, interpretations and amendments new standards adopted by the Company During 2015 there were no new standards adopted by the Company.
New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2015 had no impact in the financial information of the Company.
Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Company intends to adopt these standards it considers applicable to the Companys financial statements, when they become effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, when the IASB finalises their amendments to defer the effective date of IFRS 15 by one year.
The Company plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date using the full retrospective method.
During 2015, the Company performed a preliminary assessment of IFRS 15, which is subject to changes arising from a more detailed ongoing analysis.
Furthermore, the Company is considering the clarifications issued by the IASB in an exposure draft in July 2015 and will monitor any further developments.
202 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019: earlier application is permitted.
However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has not early adopted this standard, however management has reviewed the aggregation level in the financial statements including disclosures in notes, considering the new guidance on materiality.
The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Company.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 7 required disclosure of information that will allow users to understand changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
This includes changes arising from i cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings: and ii non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets.
The IASB has issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company.
The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Determination of functional currency, note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Contingencies note 14 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets, notes 2 g and 7: The Company classifies certain financial assets as available-for-sale and recognises movements in their fair value in equity.
When the fair value declines, management makes an assessment of the decline in value to determine whether it is an impairment that should be recognised in profit or loss.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 an impairment loss of US$2.9 million has been recognised relating to available-for-sale assets.
203 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries notes 2 e and 6 : The Company assesses the investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and the value in use.
A value in use assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Company may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge.
At 31 December 2015, impairment losses of US$1,680.1 million have been recognised relating to subsidiaries 2014: US$734.8 million.
d Foreign currency translation The Companys financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company.
The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined.
e Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls operating and financial policies and is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
When the Company increases its capital investment in, or where there is a return of share capital from, its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition or return of the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in the subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
When this information is not available the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
f Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Financial assets are offset with liabilities and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
204 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments, as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Company shall adjust the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans.
For more information refer to note 12.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
205 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued g Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Company considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
h Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
i Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
j Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Trademark royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method, i. e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive the payment is established.
206 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued k Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
l Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
207 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued m Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 18. n Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Profit or loss attributable to the Parent Company The loss for the Company is US$894.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: profit of US$139.6 million.
In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented.
Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Income tax a Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net credit charge arising on unrealised losses gains on available-for-sale assets note 7 3,522 7,145 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 3,522 7,145 208 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 5.
Income tax continued b The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net asset liability 3,138 2,245 Income statement charge credit 27,150 12,528 Net credit charge arising on unrealised losses gains on available-for-sale assets note 7 3,522 7,145 Closing net liability asset 20,490 3,138 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other 363 697 Derivative financial instruments 41,255 5,258 Losses carried forward 21,884 14,240 Available-for-sale financial assets 756 5,147 Net deferred tax liability asset 20,490 3,138 c Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,450 million 2014: US$1,528 million.
d Corporate Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
Investments in subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 6,730,093 6,792,011 Impairment 945,284 130,169 1 Additions 16,158 68,251 2 Closing balance 5,800,967 6,730,093 1 Of the US$68.3 million of additions, US$52.1 million relates to the carrying amount of loan to Proveedora fide Equipos Fresne S. A. fide C. V. which was capitalised as part of the Companys investment on 6 October 2014.
2 The Bajio land dispute could have an impact to the Companys investment in Minera Penmont Soldedad-Dipolos mine unit note 14.
During 2015 and 2014, due to the gold and silver prices decreasing the Company made an impairment assessment to determine whether the carrying value of each of its subsidiaries was recoverable as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
As a result a cumulative impairment loss of US$1,680.1 million is recognised with respect to certain of the Companys investment in subsidiaries 2014: US$734.8 million.
The recoverable amount was estimated on the Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal FVLCD 2014: FVLCD.
209 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 6.
Investments in subsidiaries continued The following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: Year ended 31 December 2015 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousands US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 703,483 703,483 3,561,388 Posttax 6.21% Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 470,770 481,878 Posttax 6.09% Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 104,339 141,738 1,133,900 Posttax 6.02% Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 137,462 137,462 671,488 Posttax 6.02% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 226,627 139,400 Posttax 6.43% 945,284 1,680,080 As at 31 December 2015 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology.
In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate.
Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to commodity price assumptions.
The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts consensus of long-term prices.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company used price assumptions US$1,200 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2014 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousands US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 9,277 470,770 414,252 Posttax 4.04% Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 37,399 37,399 1,182,239 Posttax 4.16% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 83,493 226,627 138,936 Posttax 4.63% 130,169 734,796 As at 31 December 2014 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company used price assumptions US$1,250 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Exploraciones Minera Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Parrea provides exploration services to the mining entities and management determined FVLCD based on the future cash flow derived from such services, which are derived from estimated costs.
Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to the estimate of exploration expenses.
Sensitivity analysis Management has performed a sensitivity analysis for those subsidiaries where an impairment was determined.
The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2015 considering a change in commodity prices assumptions with all other assumptions held constant: Decrease in commodity prices Penmont Saucito Fresnillo Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 5% 10% 178,408 173,259 833,734 High sensitivity 10% 20% 256,300 290,608 1,335,862 The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2015 considering a change in interest rate assumptions with all other assumptions held constant: Basis points increase in Penmont Saucito Fresnillo interest rate US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 50 111,091 75,649 428,331 High sensitivity 100 121,277 94,562 520,813 210 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 6.
Investments in subsidiaries continued The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2014 considering a change in commodity prices assumptions: Decrease in commodity prices Saucito Cinega Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 5% 10% 161,672 100,283 High sensitivity 10% 20% 285,931 191,859 The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2014 considering a change in exploration expenses: Decrease in exploration Parrea expenses US$ thousands Low sensitivity 5% 2,424 High sensitivity 10% 4,849 The subsidiaries in which investments are directly held as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Country of Equity interest % Legal company Principal activity incorporation Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 1 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Production of dor bars gold silver Mexico 56 56 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and silver Mexico 100 100 precipitates Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Desarrollos Mineros Canelas, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 1 Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 56 56 Desarrollos Mineros el Aguila, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 Metalrgica Reyna, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 Equipos Mineros Nazas, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 1 Proveedora fide Equipos Fresne, S fide R. L. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 56 56 Equipos Mineros la Hacienda, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 Proveedora fide Equipos Jerez, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, Holds rights over silver production from Peoles Mexico 100 100 S. A. fide C. V. polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto, S. A. P. I. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 55 55 Exploraciones Coneto, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 100 100 Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Mine project Mexico 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Operaciones Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Servicios fide Exploracin Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining investments Canada 100 100 Fresnillo Per, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 Fresnillo Chile, SpA Exploration services Chile 100 2 Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. Administrative services Mexico The list of subsidiary undertakings presented in this note represents the full list of subsidiary undertakings, required to be submitted by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006.
1 The remaining 44% interest in these companies are held by Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
2 Whilst Fresnillo plc holds no direct ownership in Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. the company is held through the subsidiaries Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. and Operaciones Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. in equal ownership.
211 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 7.
Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 86,078 63,245 Fair value change 14,636 22,833 Ending balance 71,442 86,078 At 31 December 2015 several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group.
This decrease has been sustained during the past 12-month period, which is considered to be prolonged, therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement 2014: US$1.0 million.
The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other receivables from related parties note 15 3,764 12,362 Prepayments 145 Other 2 3,766 12,507 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired.
In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Cash and cash equivalents Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 16 28 Short-term deposits 110,201 115,995 Cash and cash equivalents 110,217 116,023 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares.
212 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 10.
Equity continued The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Movements in this reserve during 2015 and 2014 represent the impairment of the carrying value of Fresnillos investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Retained earnings This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid.
Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2015 1 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 3.0 22,107 2 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 Year ended 31 December 2014 3 Final dividend for 2013 declared and paid during the year 6.8 50,109 4 Interim dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 5.0 36,845 11.8 86,954 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2014 and paid on 22 May 2014.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 August 2014 and paid on 11 September 2014.
Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the notes.
An analysis of the debt recognised in the balance sheet is calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 796,160 795,306 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 872 854 Closing balance 797,032 796,160 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
213 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 13.
Trade and other payables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other payables to related parties note 15 16,819 4,107 Other taxes and contributions 3,768 3,901 Accrued expenses 981 858 21,568 8,866 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates their book values.
The Companys exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 19.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2015 the Company has the following contingencies: The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the pre-IPO reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
In regard to the Ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of Soledad-Dipolos are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Magistrate noted that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order is excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appears not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
Penmont has challenged the procedural order before Federal courts, who have indicated that the correct procedural time for filing such complaint should be when legal execution over lands comprising the Soledad-Dipolos pit is initiated currently the lands are in a judicial deposit pending final execution for delivery to claimants.
Penmont conducted mining activities on approximately 300 hectares of such lands and remediation activities in this respect are still pending.
214 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 14.
Contingencies continued In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajo agrarian community presented additional claims, including a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, claiming US$65 million in damages, alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land.
The claimants have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit.
Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora.
Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling is not probable.
In addition, claimants have presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
The Unitarian Agrarian Court has issued rulings declaring i such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void: ii and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area: and iii that Penmont must pay rent for occupying the land parcels whilst the claimants must reimburse Penmont the monies it originally paid for occupying such lands.
The rulings also make reference in this same context including remediation and return of minerals to the separate court case involving Soledad-Dipolos mentioned above.
Penmont has appealed these rulings since it is the owner of the mining concessions and all mining activities were conducted in accordance with Mexican law.
The ultimate result of the appeals process remains pending.
In regards the reference to SoledadDipolos within the scope of these land parcels cases, certain of these appeals have been decided for the Company, some against, whilst others remain pending.
However, any adverse court order involving minerals over lands where the Soledad-Dipolos pit is located would be subject to a further appeals process, as that was a separate legal file as described above.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajo matter including appeals that are pending as well as criminal complaints between the parties.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
Related party balances and transactions Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Companys subsidiaries disclosed in note 6, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies.
Related party balances will be settled in cash.
All the balances as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 and the transactions carried out with related parties for the years then ended correspond to subsidiaries.
a Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable Accounts payable US$ thousands US$ thousands 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 Loans with related parties 706,989 772,102 Administrative services 7,812 7,963 334 Trademark royalty 3,717 4,070 8,855 3,773 Other 47 480 1 Sub-total 710,753 784,464 16,819 4,107 LessCurrent portion 710,753 784,464 16,819 4,107 Non-current portion Effective interest rates on loans granted to related parties in US dollar range between 2.3% to 2.41% 2014: 2.18% to 2.23% : in Mexican peso range 5.31% to 5.34% 2014: 5.46% to 5.80%.
215 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15.
Related party balances and transactions continued b Principal transactions with related parties apart from dividends, additional investments and returns of capital are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Trademark royalties 34,679 40,493 Interest on loans to related parties 21,824 12,496 Other 340 Total income 56,503 53,329 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 9,399 2,681 Interest on loans from related parties 1,339 14,271 Other 455 1,083 Total expenses 11,193 18,035 c Compensation of key management personnel of the Company Key management personnel comprise Non-executive Directors.
In 2015, their compensation was US$0.7 million 2014: US$0.8 million.
This compensation paid is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for the Company was US$1.1 million 2014: US$1.0 million in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to Fresnillo Group audit.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand-alone financial statements because the Group financial statements are prepared which include these fees on a consolidated basis.
Notes to the statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Loss Profit for the year 894,822 139,536 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment charge 6 945,284 130,169 Dividends income 291,099 Income tax expense 27,150 6,163 Other expenses income 1,584 765 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 982 Net finance income loss 104,722 59,314 Foreign exchange loss 2,689 163 Working capital adjustments Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 8,656 5,973 Decrease in prepayments and other assets 143 69 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 15,656 19,399 Cash generated from operations 4,514 8,364 Income tax paid 3,402 15,677 Net cash from operating activities 7,916 24,041 216 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 18.
Financial instruments a Fair value category As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at through OCI through profit fair value Loans and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedge Trade and other receivables 3,764 Loans to related parties 706,989 Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 Derivative financial instruments 117,075 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedge Interest-bearing loans 797,032 Trade and other payables 16,819 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 As at 31 December 2014 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at through OCI through profit fair value Loans and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedge Trade and other receivables 12,362 Loans to related parties 772,102 Available-for-sale financial assets 86,078 Derivative financial instruments 14,551 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedge Interest-bearing loans 796,160 Trade and other payables 4,107 Derivative financial instruments 27,033 b Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 117,075 14,551 117,075 14,551 2 Loans to related parties 706,989 772,102 706,989 772,102 Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 86,078 71,442 86,078 Financial liabilities: 1 Interest-bearing loans 797,032 796,160 805,352 795,128 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 27,033 1,427 27,033 1 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
2 Loans to related parties are categorised in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
217 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial instruments continued The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2015 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 116,995 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 71,442 71,442 117,075 188,517 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,427 1,427 1,427 1,427 As of 31 December 2014 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 14,229 14,229 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 322 322 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 86,078 86,078 86,078 14,551 100,629 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 8,704 8,704 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 18,329 18,329 27,033 27,033 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Options and forwards to hedge foreign exchange contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
Option commodity contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
218 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 18.
Financial instruments continued Quoted investments Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Companys interest-bearing loan is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Loans with related parties Fair value of the Companys loan to related parties is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on market interest rates at each reporting date.
c Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from the activities of these subsidiaries.
Also the Company enters into option contracts to manage its subsidiaries exposure to commodity price risk associated with the sales of gold.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
The outstanding forward derivative contracts as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2015 Contract value Contract 2015 Fair value Term Currency thousands exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2016 EUR 69 EUR1:US$1.09 to 0.3 EUR1:US$1.10 Swedish krona-denominated contracts 2016 SEK 14,463 SEK$8.41:US$1 0.6 The Companys euro-denominated forward derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016.
The Company also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its subsidiaries exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016.
The Company also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 11 January 2016 to 8 August 2016.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$198 million with a range of floor prices from MX$14.00 to MX$16.82:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.92 and a range of capped prices from MX$17.25 to MX$19.50:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$18.26.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$1.8 million.
Forward derivative contracts that were outstanding as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 Contract value 2014 Fair value Term Currency thousands Contract exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2015 EUR 869 EUR1:US$1.25 to 121 EUR1:US$1.35 Swedish krona-denominated contracts 2015 SEK 41,597 SEK$7.19:US$1 to 359 SEK$7.62:US$1 The Companys euro-denominated forward derivative instruments matured on 13 March 2015 at a weighted average rate of US$1.35: 1.
These derivative instruments matured over a period from 13 March 2015 to 12 June 2015 with a weighted average rate of SEK$7.27:US$1.
Collar derivative instruments matured over the period from 12 January 2015 to 14 December 2015.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$259.5 million with a range of floor prices from MX$13.09 to MX$14.00:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$13.45 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$18.13:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.19.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2014 was an asset of US$1.2 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2014 was a liability of US$18.7 million.
219 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial instruments continued Commodity price contracts During 2014 the Company entered into gold ounce-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries exposure to fluctuations in commodity price for a total amount of 1,559,689 ounces.
As at 31 December 2015 the outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2019 and hedge cash proceeds for the sales of gold production amounting 1,257,516 ounces 2014: 1,524,276 ounces with a floor price of US$1,100:1 ounce and a range of capped prices from US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce for both years and weighted average price of US$1,426:1 ounce.
2014: 1,427:1 ounce The fair value of the put options as at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$147.3 million 2014: US$111.8 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$35.1 million 2014: US$107.4 million.
The Group also entered into lead tonnes-US dollar and zinc tonnes-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries exposure to fluctuations in commodity price.
Lead collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge lead production amounting 4,272 tonnes 2014: 2,261 tonnes with a floor price of US$1,985:1 tonne 2014: US$2,100:1 tonne and a range of capped prices from US$2,220 to US$2,310:1 tonne US$2,450 to US$2,550:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,259:1 tonne 2014: US$2,496:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$1.0 million 2014: US$0.6 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.085 million 2014: US$0.001 million.
Zinc collar derivate instruments mature over the period 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge zinc production amounting 4,536 tonnes 2014: 8,911 tonnes with a floor price of US$2,205 tonne 2014: range of floor prices of US$1,900 to US$2,200:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,100:1 tonne and a range of capped prices from US$2,535 to US$2,550:1 tonne 2014: US$2,400 to US$2,650: 1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,542:1 tonne 2014: US$2,534:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$2.7 million 2014: US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.02 million 2014: US$0.1 million.
19 Financial Risk Management Overview The Companys principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets, loans to and from related parties, interest-bearing loans and trade payables.
The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries.
The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Companys exposure to each of the above risks and the Companys objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Companys risk management framework.
The Companys risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities.
The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Companys income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign currency risk The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchase of services, payment or receipt of dividends and other items.
As a result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
220 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 19 Financial Risk Management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% 11,349 10% 6,556 2014 15% 29,787 5% 11,107 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 5% 213 10% 78 2014 15% 515 10% 572 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar compared to the euro, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% 10% 2014 5% 52 10% 105 Commodity risk The Companys subsidiaries have exposure to changes in metals prices specifically gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Companys results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price exposure in its subsidiaries, see mentioned in note 18 c. 221 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 19 Financial Risk Management continued The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity relating to changes in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts of financial assets and liabilities, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the effect on profit before tax.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% 98,118 10% 15% 25% 15% 121,716 2014 10% 20% 15% 10% 109,994 10% 20% 10% 15% 66,523 Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments.
The Companys earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the loans with related parties and interest earned on cash balances.
Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value, therefore, are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 551 10 110 2014 25 290 10 116 Equity price risk The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Companys profit before tax and equity: Effect on Effect on profit equity: Increase before tax: increase decrease in increase decrease Year ended 31 December equity price decrease US$ thousands 2015 50% 35,721 30% 5,135 16,297 2014 60% 51,157 40% 16,983 17,632 222 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 19 Financial Risk Management continued b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Companys ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Companys exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Companys exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Companys financial assets are with counterparties with what the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 15, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Companys financial assets were neither impaired nor past due.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency and commodity hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Companys surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of M-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above, and only for periods of less than four months.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 7 for the maximum credit exposure for available-for-sale investments, note 9 for cash and cash equivalents and note 15 for related party balances.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,136 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Trade and other payables 16,819 16,819 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 985,068 1,216,403 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 261,051 261,051 Trade and other payables 4,107 4,107 223 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 19 Financial Risk Management continued The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Net 5,194 16,621 1,806 23,620 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Inflows 239,238 239,238 Outflows 261,051 261,051 Net 21,813 21,813 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from derivative financial instruments which the Company expects are going to be exercised from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015 and in 2015 to 2019 as at 31 December 2014, either by the Company or the counterparty.
Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Companys capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Companys dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows.
