Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
General information G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities its subsidiaries controlled by the company collectively comprising the group and the groups interest in jointly controlled entities made up to 31 December each year.
The group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling.
The groups financial statements are presented in sterling, as the groups primary listing is in the UK.
The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The company has adopted FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework for the preparation of its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 189 to 201.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting policies which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been restated to reflect prior year adjustments in respect of certain alarm sales and related leases in Denmark, prior year errors identified in Africa and for errors in respect of accounting for acquisitions, disposals and related tax balances in North America between 2007 and 2014.
The consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 has been re-presented to reflect the re-classification of certain discontinued businesses that have not been sold within one year from the date they were classified into discontinued operations, into continuing operations.
This re-classification has resulted in continuing revenue increasing by 41m, and continuing operating profit reducing by 7m, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In addition, 3m in respect of certain employee-related costs in Latin America has been re-classified to PBITA rather than tax in 2014 to align with the presentation within the 2015 results.
The consolidated statements of financial position at 31 December 2014 and at 1 January 2014 have been re-presented to show separately the 75m retirement benefit surplus within the GSL section of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, and for the re-classification of 16m of cash balances in North America previously reported within investments.
Further details of restatements and re-classifications are provided in note 3 w. b Presentation of the income statement In order to provide further clarity in the groups consolidated income statement and segmental analysis, the group separately discloses specific items, restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal of subsidiaries, acquisition-related amortisation and expenses and goodwill impairment.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the underlying results of the group.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way aids the understanding of the groups financial performance.
c Specific items and other separately disclosed items Specific items The groups consolidated income statement and segmental analysis note separately identify results before specific items.
Specific items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed separately in arriving at operating profit by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Specific items include the results of updating estimates and judgements for certain assets and liabilities related to the balance sheet review performed in 2013, where a group-wide review of the carrying value of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012 was performed.
This exercise resulted in a number of assets being impaired as well as a number of provisions for onerous contracts and liabilities being recorded, as indicated in the 2013 annual report.
Changes to the estimates made in relation to the liabilities and provisions then identified have since been classified as specific, including top-ups and reversal of provisions.
The group has completed this review in 2015.
All future related changes in estimates will flow through underlying results, unless these are individually material.
Contract losses included within specific items arise from the recognition of material future losses, net of the release of any surplus provisions.
In general, provisions recognised for future losses are charged to the consolidated income statement within PBITA.
Where onerous contract provisions are material by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items.
Such losses are distinct from in-year losses, which are utilised against provisions for onerous contract losses.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Specific items for the current and prior year are disclosed in note 8.
120 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Other separately disclosed items In order to provide further clarity in the consolidated income statement, the group also discloses separately restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal of subsidiaries, acquisition-related amortisation and expenses and goodwill impairment.
Restructuring costs that are separately disclosed reflect the multi-year efficiency programme which is being carried out by the group.
This programme is of a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and approved by the groups Executive Committee.
During 2014 and 2015 activities under the programme have focused primarily on transforming the operating model in the regions of UK & Ireland and Europe.
During the second half of 2015 this programme began to address organisational efficiency in Latin America, Africa, Asia and North America.
Restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded as part of the groups underlying trading results and are not separately disclosed.
d Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control is achieved where the group has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the groups returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
This can be determined either by the groups ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
In the case of certain investments detailed analysis of the different contracts in place is required, together with a level of judgement, to ascertain whether there is control under the definition of IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements see note 4.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the acquisition date fair value of the assets transferred as consideration to the vendor and does not include transaction costs.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of deferred and contingent consideration payable, including that in respect of put options held by non-controlling shareholders, as estimated at the date of acquisition.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 subsequent changes to the present value of the estimate of contingent consideration and any difference upon final settlement of such a liability are recognised as adjustments to the cost of acquisition.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2010 such changes are recognised in the income statement with respect to contingent consideration and in other comprehensive income with respect to put options.
Non-controlling interests are stated at their proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Profits and losses are applied in the proportion of their respective ownership to the interest of the parent and to the non-controlling interests.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of control and up to the effective date of disposal, respectively.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the groups consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
The groups share of post-tax profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where a group company transacts with a joint venture of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
e Foreign currencies The financial statements of each of the groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period unless this is Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued e Foreign currencies continued not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income, together with exchange differences arising on monetary items that are in substance a part of the groups net investment in foreign operations and on borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments where and to the extent that the hedges are deemed to be effective.
On disposal, translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
f Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting In accordance with its treasury policy, the group only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the groups exposure to financial risk, not for trading purposes.
Such financial risk includes the interest risk on the groups variable-rate borrowings, the fair value risk on the groups fixed-rate borrowings, commodity risk in relation to its diesel consumption and foreign exchange risk on transactions, on the translation of the groups results and on the translation of the groups net assets measured in foreign currencies.
The group manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as financial assets or liabilities at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting where the treatment of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below: Fair value hedges The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow and net investment hedges The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged cash flow or hedged net investment impacts the income statement.
The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
g Intangible assets Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by the application of the acquisition method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
No goodwill arises on the acquisition of an additional interest from a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary as this is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses, and is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related intangible assets Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships.
The fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such information is available, or by the use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess earnings method.
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic lives.
The directors review acquisition-related intangible assets on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Trademarks and technology up to a maximum of five years Customer contracts and customer relationships up to a maximum of ten years Other intangible assets Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the group.
Such expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only if the following can be demonstrated: the expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient resources to complete development.
In all other instances, the cost of such expenditure is taken directly to the income statement.
122 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected to be revenue-producing, up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised computer software is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is charged on software so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives up to a maximum of eight years.
h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 50 years Short leasehold buildings under 50 years over the life of the lease Equipment and motor vehicles 2 to 10 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful economic lives and the terms of the relevant lease.
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.
i Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where the group identifies a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and other local economic and market conditions and are calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the effective interest rate at origination of the receivable.
Service concession assets Under the terms of a Private Finance Initiative PFI or similar project, the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain largely with the purchaser of the associated services.
In such cases, the groups interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and included at its discounted value within trade and other receivables, to the extent to which the group has an unconditional right to receive cash from the grantor of the concession for the construction of the asset.
To the extent that the group has the right to charge for the use of such an asset, conditional upon the extent of the use, the group recognises an intangible asset.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise investments in securities which are classified as held-for-trading.
Such investments are initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and that form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flow.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at fair value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average or the first-in-first-out method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued k Impairment The carrying value of the groups assets, with the exception of inventories, financial receivables and deferred tax assets, is reviewed on an ongoing basis for any indication of impairment and, if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The amount of the reversal is limited such that the assets carrying amount does not exceed that which would have been determined after depreciation and amortisation if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to statemanaged retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
For defined benefit plans, the cost charged to the income statement consists of current service cost, net interest cost, and past service cost.
The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance expense and the remaining service cost element is charged as a component of employee costs in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and other remeasurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in full through the statement of comprehensive income.
Share-based payments The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share-based payments is determined at the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, excluding changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
The group also issues cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are recognised as a liability at fair value at the date of grant.
The value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date the liability is settled.
Changes in the liability are recognised directly in the income statement.
m Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
The amount recognised as a provision is the groups best estimate of the cost of settlement at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of claims and litigation, the group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to contingent liabilities see note 33 through assessing the likelihood that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate discount rate.
n Restructuring provisions A restructuring provision is recognised when the group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
The group distinguishes between restructuring costs that are recurring and those that relate to one-off or transformational group programmes that impact a number of operations.
Recurring restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded as part of the groups underlying trading results within profit before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA.
Restructuring costs that are one-off and individually material or relate to programmes linked to the groups wider transformation and require approval at executive level are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
124 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements o Revenue recognition The groups revenue arises from two primary sources Secure solutions products, mainly comprising manned security and facilities management services, and Cash solutions, mainly the provision of physical cash management services.
Within Secure solutions there are additional revenue streams arising from: Technology services, comprising the supply, installation and monitoring of alarm systems, and security and building systems technology: Facilities management: and Care and justice services.
Within Cash solutions there is an additional revenue stream arising from technology services, comprising the provision of hardware and bundled software for the processing of cash receipts by customers.
In all of these business areas revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Certain low volume high value government contracts, mainly for care and justice outsourcing services and facilities management services, can cover a range of bundled services over a long period of time, that are provided on a time and materials basis.
Revenue for these types of contracts is recognised on an accruals basis based on the individual services provided and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Where services provided to customers include more than one particular revenue source, such as the supply and installation of alarms together with an on-going maintenance contract, the fair value of each revenue source is separately identified and allocated to each element of the arrangement.
Manned security, cash management, facilities management, other care and justice services and security systems services Revenue is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Security alarm systems installations Revenue for B2B customers is recognised on completion of the installation, and the attributable costs of the installation are recognised as a cost of sale, given that the risks and rewards associated with the asset are transferred to the customer.
This is a change in accounting policy from previous years, where the attributable costs were capitalised and depreciated over the useful life of the assets see note 3 w. Revenue for B2C customers is deferred and recognised along with the revenue from the related monitoring service over the term of the contract given that legal and economic ownership of the assets remains with the group.
This is a change in accounting policy from previous years, where the revenue was recognised on completion of the installation see note 3 w. Service and monitoring fees for all alarm system contracts are recognised in the period when the service is provided.
Long-term construction contracts These contracts mainly relate to long-term construction of alarm or other technology installation projects, which span one or more reporting periods and where long-term contract accounting is applied.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work to date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is likely that they will be agreed with the customer and hence recoverable.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are deemed likely to be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses as they are incurred.
Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
p Pre-contract and mobilisation costs Pre-contract costs in respect of major outsourcing contracts, incurred after the point at which the group achieves preferred bidder status at which point it is considered probable that the contract will be obtained and before contract mobilisation, are capitalised and expensed over the life of the contract, subject to recoverability criteria.
Costs incurred prior to this point are expensed as incurred.
Capitalised costs are expensed immediately in the event that preferred bidder status is not followed by the award of the contract, or where these may no longer be expected to be recovered through future profits.
Mobilisation costs are those costs incurred after the signing of a contract with a customer, and prior to commencement of delivery of the contract.
Costs incurred during this stage are generally only capitalised if the criteria to be capitalised as inventories or as property, plant and equipment are met.
In all other cases mobilisation costs are expensed as incurred.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued q Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Management profit improvement plans to recover the position on loss-making contracts require a level of judgement and are generally taken into account in the calculation of the onerous contract provision only when implementation has commenced and tangible evidence exists of benefits being delivered.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.
In-year operating losses from onerous contracts are accounted for as a utilisation of the related provision for future losses.
Any excess or shortfall to the initial estimate for onerous contract provisions is credited or charged in the consolidated income statement consistent with where the charge for the initial provision was recognised.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease taking into account expected future sub-lease income.
r Interest Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
This is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs, also calculated using the effective interest rate method, are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
s Income taxes Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised through other comprehensive income.
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of each deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated due to changes in tax legislation, differing interpretations of tax legislation and uncertainties surrounding the application of tax legislation.
In situations where uncertainties exist, provision is made for tax liabilities and assets on the basis of management judgement following consideration of the available relevant information.
Further detail on managements judgement in respect of taxation is provided in note 4.
126 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements t Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
On occasion this classification requires a level of judgement.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments made or received are apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, as are incentives to enter into operating leases.
u Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The group must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
v Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are paid or approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
w Prior year restatement and re-classifications Prior year restatement During the year the group identified prior year errors that required the restatement of the results for the year ended 31 December 2014, as well as the consolidated statements of financial position as at 31 December 2014 and at 1 January 2014 due to their materiality.
The nature of these restatements is as follows: 1.
The revenue recognition policy previously applied in respect of the supply and installation of alarm systems in Europe, together with the underlying assumptions used in 2007 at inception of certain related sale and leaseback transactions entered into until 2013, were incorrect.
These led to the incorrect timing of recognition of profit on installation of those alarm systems with upfront gains being recognised instead of being deferred over the life of the lease and to certain leases being classified as operating rather than as finance leases: 2.
A number of legacy control weaknesses identified in the Africa region led management to perform a full review of the balance sheet in all countries of the region from which prior year errors were identified, mainly relating to cash reconciliations, under-accrual of employee and customer-related liabilities, incorrect classification of finance leases as operating leases and expenses incorrectly capitalised: and 3.
A number of errors in respect of the calculation of goodwill on certain acquisitions, gains and losses on certain disposals and related tax balances in North America between 2007 and 2014 mainly resulting in goodwill being overstated as at 1 January 2014 and at 31 December 2014 and profit on disposals in 2014 being understated.
Prior year re-classifications The consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 has been re-presented to reflect the re-classification of certain discontinued businesses that have not been sold within one year from the date they were classified into discontinued operations, into continuing operations.
This re-classification has resulted in continuing revenue increasing by 41m, and continuing PBITA reducing by 7m, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The consolidated statements of financial position at 31 December 2014 and at 1 January 2014 have been re-presented to show separately the retirement benefit surplus within the GSL section of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, and for the re-classification of certain cash balances in North America previously reported within investments.
None of the prior year restatements or re-classifications impact the future cash generation of the group.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued w Prior year restatement and re-classifications continued Summary A summary of the combined impact on the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 as well as on the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014, arising from the above restatements and the re-classifications, is as follows: Restatement As for prior year ReConsolidated income statement for the year ended reported errors Restated classifications Re-presented 31 December 2014 m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations 6,848 6,848 41 6,889 Operating profit before specific items 414 7 407 10 397 Profit before tax 148 8 140 12 128 Profit from continuing operations after tax 106 13 93 11 82 Profit from discontinued operations 63 6 69 11 80 Profit for the year 169 7 162 162 Restatement As for prior year ReReConsolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended reported errors Restated classifications presented 31 December 2014 m m m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 255 10 265 265 Net cash generated by investing activities 26 2 28 16 44 Net cash flow from financing activities 417 15 432 432 Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 136 3 139 16 123 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year 538 2 536 536 Effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 11 11 11 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 391 5 386 16 402 Restatement As for prior year ReReConsolidated statement of financial position as at reported errors Restated classifications presented 31 December 2014 m m m m m Goodwill 1,939 15 1,924 1,924 Property, plant and equipment 450 18 468 468 Retirement benefit surplus 75 75 Deferred tax assets 176 16 192 192 Investments 60 60 16 44 Trade and other receivables 1,371 5 1,366 1,366 Cash and cash equivalents 409 3 406 16 422 Other assets 417 1 418 418 Total Assets 4,822 12 4,834 75 4,909 Obligation under finance leases current 14 11 25 25 Trade and other payables current 1,103 22 1,125 1,125 Obligation under finance leases non-current 26 26 52 52 Retirement benefit obligations 319 319 75 394 Other liabilities 2,390 1 2,391 2,391 Total Liabilities 3,852 60 3,912 75 3,987 Net assets 970 48 922 922 Equity 970 48 922 922 128 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Full details of the impact of each of the prior year adjustments on the line items in the consolidated income statement and statement of cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the statements of financial position as at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2014 by reporting segment are shown below: North Consolidated income statement As Europe Africa America ReRefor the year ended reported restatement restatement restatement Restated classifications presented 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Revenue from continuing operations 6,848 1 1 6,848 41 6,889 Operating profit before specific items 414 9 16 407 10 397 Profit before tax 148 7 15 140 12 128 Profit from continuing operations after tax 106 5 17 1 93 11 82 Profit from discontinued operations 63 6 69 11 80 Profit for the year 169 5 17 5 162 162 North Consolidated statement of As Europe Africa America re Re cash flow for the year ended reported restatement restatement Restated classification presented 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 255 11 1 265 265 Net cash generated by investing activities 26 3 1 28 16 44 Net cash flow from financing activities 417 14 1 432 432 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 136 3 139 16 123 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year 538 2 536 536 Effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 11 11 11 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 391 5 386 16 402 Certain cash balances in North America previously reported within investments were re-classified to within cash to more accurately reflect their nature.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued w Prior year restatement and re-classifications continued North As Europe Africa America ReReConsolidated statement of financial reported restatement restatement restatement Restated classifications presented position at 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m ASSETS Goodwill 1,939 15 1,924 1,924 Property, plant and equipment 450 15 3 468 468 Retirement benefit surplus 75 75 Deferred tax assets 176 5 11 192 192 Other non-current assets 303 303 303 Investments 60 60 16 44 Trade and other receivables 1,371 5 1,366 1,366 Cash and cash equivalents 409 3 406 16 422 Other current assets 114 1 115 115 Total assets 4,822 20 4 4 4,834 75 4,909 LIABILITIES Obligations under finance leases 14 10 1 25 25 Trade and other payables 1,103 7 15 1,125 1,125 Provisions 90 90 90 Current tax liabilities 69 14 55 55 Other current liabilities 178 2 180 180 Obligations under finance leases non-current 26 23 3 52 52 Trade and other payables noncurrent 23 12 35 35 Provisions non-current 105 2 1 104 104 Retirement benefit obligations 319 319 75 394 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 17 2 4 19 19 Other non-current liabilities 1,908 1,908 1,908 Total liabilities 3,852 48 22 10 3,912 75 3,987 Net assets 970 28 26 6 922 922 EQUITY Share capital 388 388 388 Share premium and reserves 560 28 26 6 512 512 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 948 28 26 6 900 900 Non-controlling interests 22 22 22 Total equity 970 28 26 6 922 922 130 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements North As Europe Africa America ReReConsolidated statement reported restatement restatement restatement Restated classifications presented of financial position at 1 January 2014 m m m m m m m ASSETS Goodwill 1,955 15 1,940 1,940 Property, plant and equipment 484 29 4 517 517 Retirement benefit surplus 31 31 Deferred tax assets 184 7 5 196 196 Other non-current assets 356 356 356 Investments 39 39 39 Trade and other receivables 1,380 2 1,378 1,378 Other current assets 864 864 864 Total assets 5,262 36 2 10 5,290 31 5,321 LIABILITIES Obligations under finance leases 21 10 31 31 Trade and other payables 1,166 10 5 1,181 1,181 Provisions 195 195 195 Other current liabilities 278 2 280 280 Obligations under finance leases non-current 31 35 4 70 70 Trade and other payables non-current 13 20 33 33 Provisions non-current 64 2 62 62 Retirement benefit obligations 504 504 31 535 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 45 2 1 44 44 Other non-current liabilities 2,061 2,061 2,061 Total liabilities 4,378 71 11 1 4,461 31 4,492 Net assets 884 35 9 11 829 829 EQUITY Share capital 388 388 388 Share premium and reserves 476 35 9 11 421 421 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 864 35 9 11 809 809 Non-controlling interests 20 20 20 Total equity 884 35 9 11 829 829 x Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations The IASB issued a number of amendments to IFRSs that became applicable for the year ended 31 December 2015 which the group has adopted.
None of these amendments had a material impact on the groups consolidated financial statements.
The group has not adopted early any standard, amendment or interpretation.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been announced but are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The directors are currently evaluating the impact of these new standards on the group accounts.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Amendments to IFRS 11 Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Investment entity amendments The group continues to assess the potential impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt the standard from its new effective date for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In addition, the group notes the publication of IFRS 16 Leases, will be effective for the groups financial year ended 31 December 2019 and will assess in due course the potential impact of this new standard on the group accounts.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, with respect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements, estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, including current and expected economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial techniques.
Although these judgements, estimates and associated assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current events and circumstances, the actual results may differ.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which are of most significance in preparing the groups 2015 accounts are detailed below: Revenue recognition The majority of the groups revenue is generated by the provision of manned security services or cash management services and, as described in note 3 o, is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable.
The group also delivers certain long-term outsourcing services which can be complex in nature and may be governed by unique contractual arrangements.
In these cases, revenue is recognised in line with the contract at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
In such contracts, there can be significant judgements and estimates in relation to variations or claims not specified within the original contract, to interpretation of complex contract wording, and in relation to estimates required to determine future costs to complete and expected margins, including the impact of contractual performance conditions which may give rise to penalties.
Onerous contracts When a long-term contract is expected to incur future unavoidable losses and has therefore become onerous, judgement is required to assess the future expected revenue and costs and hence to determine the appropriate level of provision.
Further judgement is necessary in determining the extent to which account is taken of profit improvement plans developed by management to improve the profitability of the contract over the remainder of its life.
Such plans are generally taken into account only once they have been developed and implementation has commenced, and there is tangible evidence of benefits being delivered.
In addition, where onerous contracts have a termination date that can be extended solely at the customers request, consideration is given, based on all facts and circumstances known by management, as to whether to provide for future losses to the earliest or the final termination date.
For further details of how the group has applied judgements and estimates to significant onerous contract provisions refer to pages 164 and 165.
The most significant judgement in 2015 related to the Compass contract as described in note 33.
Carrying value of goodwill The group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
The impairment analysis for such assets is based principally upon discounted estimated future cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the assets.
Such an analysis includes the estimation of future results, cash flows, annual growth rates and discount rates.
Judgement is required in relation to the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained for example through recent transactions, fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount.
This involves judgements and estimates to apply reasonable valuation techniques and to estimate future selling costs.
The full methodology and results of the groups impairment testing is presented in note 18.
Taxation The group operates in many tax jurisdictions including countries where the tax legislation is not consistently applied and under some complex contractual circumstances where the responsibility for tax arising is not always clear.
Management are required to apply judgements and estimates to determine the appropriate amount of tax to provide for and any required disclosure around contingent tax liabilities at each period end.
Provisions for tax liabilities are estimated for existing matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as well as for matters which it is considered may be disputed by them, where it is probable that a future liability will arise.
The tax liability provided is managements best estimate based on external advice, and takes into account the anticipated position of the relevant tax authorities and other local factors.
In certain cases, and where appropriate, a probability weighting is applied in determining the amount provided.
In all cases it is assumed that the local tax authorities have, or will be provided with, full information.
Therefore the tax liability is not reduced for detection risk.
Further details about the range of the potential tax exposure to which the group is subject to are set out in note 13.
The group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in the UK and USA, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that their 132 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
Management uses the same profit projections for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Managements judgement in this area is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of taxation.
This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date.
Review of the carrying value of assets and liabilities In 2013 the group carried out a review of the carrying value of its assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012, over and above its contract review process, and comprised a review of the balance sheets of each of the subsidiaries in the group, in particular focusing on the recoverability of assets and the recognition of liabilities.
The specific judgements on liabilities were based on assessing the most likely economic outflows, taking into account any changes in facts or circumstances since that date.
This exercise required a level of judgement based on the groups then current understanding of circumstances surrounding each issue.
The results of the review were presented within specific items given the one-off nature of the review performed and changes to the estimates then made in relation to these items have since been classified as specific items, including additional changes and reversal of provisions.
As at 31 December 2015 these estimates have been further updated to reflect any changes in facts or circumstances during the year to 31 December 2015 with any additional charges or reversals also being presented within specific items see note 8.
All future related changes in estimates will flow through underlying results, unless individually material.
Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation of subsidiaries The group has a diverse set of complex ownership structures, which are sometimes driven by local laws and regulations relating to foreign ownership.
In some instances the group operates through local structures with limited direct share ownership of the business but exercises control through shareholder agreements.
In determining whether certain group entities qualify for consolidation under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, professional and legal advice is sought and a level of judgement is required.
Consolidation of any of these entities would need to be re-assessed if the groups ability to enforce its rights of control were successfully challenged.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations The valuation of defined retirement benefit schemes is arrived at using the advice of qualified independent actuaries who use the projected unit credit method for determining the groups obligations.
This methodology requires the use of a variety of assumptions and estimates, including the appropriate discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, mortality assumptions, future service and earnings increases of employees and inflation.
Full details of the groups retirement benefit obligations, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the calculations to the key assumptions are presented in note 32.
Classification of leases The classification of leases as between operating and finance leases is based on the criteria set out in IAS 17 Leases, which defines a series of attributes which, when contained within a lease, may result in its classification as a finance lease.
Judgement is required in assessing leases at inception as to whether individual attributes, in aggregate or in isolation, are such that the substance of the lease is that of a finance lease.
Re-measurement during 2015 of historical leases in Europe and Africa against the IAS 17 classification criteria resulted in prior year adjustments to re-classify certain alarm-related leases in Europe, and other leases in Africa, from operating to finance leases with effect from their inception see note 3 w. During the year the most material new leases were in North America and Europe and the related lease contracts were reviewed in detail against the classification criteria as set out in the groups accounting policies.
Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue, as defined by IAS 18 Revenue, is as follows: 2015 2014 Restated Notes m m Continuing operations Sale of goods 132 188 Rendering of services 6,561 6,536 Revenue from construction contracts 170 165 Revenue from continuing operations as presented in the consolidated income statement 6 6,863 6,889 Discontinued operations Rendering of services 350 Revenue from discontinued operations 6, 7 350 Total revenue 6,863 7,239 Restated to reflect the re-classification of certain discontinued operations to continuing operations see note 3 w. Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Operating segments The group operates on a worldwide basis and derives a substantial proportion of its revenue and operating profit from each of the following six geographic regions: Africa, Asia Middle East, Latin America, Europe, North America and UK & Ireland.
For each of these reportable segments, the group executive committee the chief operating decision maker reviews internal management reports on a regular basis.
Segment information is presented below: Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated By reportable segment m m m m m m Africa 470 470 484 484 Asia Middle East 1,421 1,421 1,330 1,330 Latin America 626 626 685 685 Europe 1,304 1,304 1,438 84 1,522 North America 1,523 1,523 1,365 266 1,631 UK & Ireland 1,519 1,519 1,587 1,587 Total revenue 6,863 6,863 6,889 350 7,239 Total gross Total gross segment Inter-segment External segment Inter-segment External revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 1 1 Revenue from internal and external Restated Restated customers by reportable segment m m m m m m Secure Solutions 5,820 9 5,811 6,131 9 6,122 Cash Solutions 1,054 2 1,052 1,119 2 1,117 Total revenue 6,874 11 6,863 7,250 11 7,239 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Refer to note 7 for details on discontinued operations.
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Operating profit before corporate costs, 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 2 2 2 by reportable segment and geographical Restated Restated Restated area m m m m m m Africa 30 30 30 30 Asia Middle East 117 117 94 94 Latin America 15 15 35 35 Europe 74 74 93 2 95 North America 90 90 75 1 76 UK & Ireland 115 115 130 130 PBITA before corporate costs 441 441 457 3 460 Corporate costs 50 50 60 60 PBITA 391 391 397 3 400 Net specific items 70 5 65 57 1 58 Restructuring costs 44 44 29 29 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 12 3 9 77 77 Goodwill impairment 66 1 67 Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 40 40 59 1 60 Operating profit 183 1 184 252 78 330 Refer to note 7 for details on discontinued operations.
Restated to reflect the re-classification of certain discontinued operations to continuing operations see note 3 w. 2.
See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
134 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Segment assets and liabilities The following information is analysed by reportable segment and by the geographical area in which the assets are located: Total Total Total Total assets assets liabilities liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 Restated Restated Total assets and liabilities m m m m By reportable segment and geographical area Africa 196 225 87 93 Asia Middle East 693 676 244 248 Latin America 280 352 87 119 Europe 696 737 263 274 North America 773 752 161 165 UK & Ireland 1,241 1,285 341 343 Inter-segment trading balances 148 188 148 188 Total segment assets and liabilities 3,731 3,839 1,035 1,054 Corporate 99 169 141 152 Total operating assets and liabilities 3,830 4,008 1,176 1,206 Non-operating assets and liabilities 888 901 2,851 2,781 Total assets and liabilities 4,718 4,909 4,027 3,987 2015 2014 Restated Non-current operating assets m m By reportable segment and geographical area Africa 100 126 Asia Middle East 362 359 Latin America 149 208 Europe 426 469 North America 481 464 UK & Ireland 920 964 Total segment assets 2,438 2,590 Corporate 55 68 Total non-current operating assets 2,493 2,658 Non-operating assets 281 307 Less: Non-current assets held for sale 25 2 Total non-current assets 2,749 2,963 Non-operating assets and liabilities comprise financial assets and liabilities, taxation assets and liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
Included within operating and non-operating assets are 47m 2014: 6m and 11m 2014: nil respectively relating to disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Included within operating and non-operating liabilities are 19m 2014: 3m and 11m 2014: 1m respectively relating to liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Disposal groups are analysed in note 25.
Other information Impairment Impairment losses Depreciation losses Depreciation recognised and Capital recognised and Capital in income amortisation additions in income amortisation additions 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Restated Restated By reportable segment m m m m m m Africa 9 15 16 16 14 Asia Middle East 11 25 39 28 30 Latin America 13 18 9 18 12 Europe 33 42 54 49 38 North America 11 15 18 16 UK & Ireland 1 63 31 4 75 36 Corporate 3 2 3 2 Total 67 177 166 4 207 148 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Discontinued operations During the year the group has re-classified the groups business in Costa Rica, together with certain small businesses that had been classified as discontinued operations for more than 12 months and not yet been sold, into continuing operations.
This re-classification resulted in total revenue increasing by 41m and total operating profit reducing by 7m for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Operations qualifying as discontinued in the prior year mainly comprised the US Government solutions business, sold in November 2014, the groups cash solutions business in Canada and its business in Norway, both sold in January 2014 and the groups business in Sweden, sold in September 2014.
The results of the discontinued operations are presented below: 2015 2014 Restated Note m m Revenue 350 Operating result profit before specific items and other separately disclosed items 3 Specific items charges 2 1 Specific items credits 7 Acquisitionrelated amortisation and expenses 1 Goodwill impairment 1 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations 3 77 Profit before tax 1 78 Tax 17 3 2 Loss profit from discontinued operations for the year 2 80 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, including an additional 6m gain recognised on disposal of discontinued operations in North America.
During the year, the group collected 26m US$40m of receivables relating to the US Government Solutions business, which was sold in November 2014.
Of this amount 7m was not recognised in the groups consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014 due to uncertainty of collectability and therefore was recognised as income within specific items in 2015.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 6.
Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement are as follows: 2014 2015 Restated m m Net cash flows from operating activities after tax 26 2 Net cash flows from investing activities 152 Net cash flows from financing activities 17 26 133 Restated to reflect the impact of certain re-classifications see note 3 w. 8.
Operating profit The income statement can be analysed as follows: 2015 2014 Restated Continuing operations m m Revenue 6,863 6,889 Cost of sales 5,657 5,589 Gross profit 1,206 1,300 Administration expenses 967 1,056 Goodwill impairment 66 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 10 8 Operating profit 183 252 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, including the impact of certain businesses re-classified from discontinued to continuing operations.
These adjustments in total have increased 2014 cost of sales by 43m and reduced administration expenses by 16m.
136 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Cost of sales includes specific items relating to a 65m 2014: 45m charge related to onerous contracts see page 164 and for the year ended 31 December 2014 also included a 5m charge relating to other items.
Administration expenses includes items that are separately disclosed relating to the following: A net 5m 2014: 7m specific item charge comprised of a 17m 2014: 28m charge relating to changes to the estimates made in the review of assets and liabilities, mainly in relation to the items identified in the balance sheet review performed in 2013 and none of which were individually material, offset by a 12m credit 2014: 21m, related to a pension curtailment of 5m 2014: settlement of 21m and a pension legal settlement of 7m 2014: nil.
The group invested 44m in restructuring activities during the year 2014: 29m, mainly relating to the multi-year efficiency programme across the group.
During 2014 and 2015 these programmes have focused primarily on transforming the operating model in the regions of UK & Ireland and Europe.
During the second half of 2015 these programmes began to address organisational efficiency in Latin America, Africa, Asia and North America.
A 66m 2014: nil charge for goodwill impairment, including 41m in relation to businesses expected to be sold or closed and 25m relating to a business in Estonia.
Further details relating to the impairment of goodwill are included in note 18.
A credit of 12m 2014: nil relating to profit on disposal of subsidiaries, mainly the groups International Parcel Service business in Asia Middle East.
Also included in administration expenses are amortisation costs of 40m 2014: 58m and acquisition-related expenses of nil 2014: 1m.
Profit from operations Profit from continuing and discontinued operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Restated Restated Restated Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 103 103 99 99 Onerous contract provisions 33, 8 65 65 45 45 Other items 8 5 5 Administration expenses Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 8 40 40 59 1 60 Restructuring costs 8 44 44 29 29 Goodwill impairment 18 66 1 67 Review of assets and liabilities 8 17 17 28 1 29 Amortisation of other intangible assets 18 25 25 25 25 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 110 110 120 3 123 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 17 12 3 9 77 77 Impairment of trade receivables 23 10 10 17 17 Research and development expenditure 8 8 10 10 Operating lease rentals payable 99 99 88 88 Pension curtailment 2014: settlement gain 8 5 5 21 21 Pension legal settlement 8 7 7 Share-based payments 39 8 8 5 5 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 5 5 All other services 1 1 Other services relates to the provision of tax and non-audit advisory services.
At the 2015 AGM KMPG stood down as the groups auditor and the shareholders confirmed the appointment of  LLP as group auditor.
Further information on this appointment can be found on page 73.
The Audit Committee Report outlines on page 73 the companys established policy for ensuring that audit independence is not compromised through the provision by the companys auditor of other services.
Staff costs and employees The average monthly number of employees, in continuing and discontinued operations, including executive directors was: 2015 2014 By reportable segment and geographical area Number Number Africa 124,707 124,024 Asia Middle East 243,486 243,909 Latin America 75,637 76,061 Europe 59,716 66,346 North America 56,393 59,232 UK & Ireland 35,843 41,221 Head office 196 196 Total average number of employees excluding joint ventures 595,978 610,989 Average number of employees employed by joint ventures 15,388 20,476 Total average number of employees including joint ventures 611,366 631,465 Their aggregate remuneration, in continuing and discontinued operations, comprised: 2015 2014 Restated m m Wages and salaries 4,128 4,243 Social security costs 443 492 Employee benefits 221 220 Total staff costs excluding joint ventures 4,792 4,955 Joint venture staff costs 58 111 Total staff costs including joint ventures 4,850 5,066 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of a prior year re-classification to social security costs in Latin America in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
Information on directors remuneration, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 90.
Net finance expense 2015 2014 Restated m m Interest and other income on cash, cash equivalents and investments 13 12 Net interest receivable on loan note related derivatives 13 11 Gain arising from change in fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging loan notes 10 5 Loss arising from fair value adjustment to the hedged loan note items 10 5 Total finance income 26 23 138 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 2015 2014 Restated m m Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 23 23 Interest on loan notes 88 92 Interest on obligations under finance leases 4 6 Other interest charges 4 4 Total group borrowing costs 119 125 Finance costs on defined retirement benefit net obligations 12 22 Total finance expense 131 147 Net finance expense 105 124 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014, including the impact of businesses re-classified from discontinued to continuing operations and of the re-classification of certain leases from operating to finance leases.
Included within group borrowing costs is a charge of 5m 2014: 6m relating to cash flow hedges that were transferred from equity during the year.
Tax Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Restated Restated Restated m m m m m m Current tax expense credit Current year 69 2 71 77 1 76 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 3 4 13 1 12 Total current tax expense credit 62 5 67 90 2 88 Deferred tax credit see note 34 Current year 16 16 Adjustments in respect of prior years note vii 12 2 14 28 28 Total deferred tax credit 12 2 14 44 44 Total income tax expense for the year 50 3 53 46 2 44 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% of the estimated assessable profits for the period.
Overseas tax is calculated at the corporation tax rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated income statement as follows: 2015 2014 Restated m m Profit before tax Continuing operations 78 128 Discontinued operations 1 78 Total profit before tax 79 206 Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 16 44 Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 2 9 Goodwill impairments not deductible 14 Deferred tax recognised on purchased intangibles note i 15 Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses note ii 5 16 Tax losses not recognised in the current year note iii 30 32 Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions note iv 11 8 Movement in deferred tax balance due to phased reduction in UK rate to 18% 5 Adjustment for joint ventures 2 2 Adjustment for previous years reassessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses note v 9 23 Adjustment for previous years other note vi 9 7 Total income tax charge 53 44 Effective tax rate for continuing and discontinued operations 67% 21% Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Tax continued The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 64% 2014: 36%.
i Deferred tax recognised on purchased intangibles nil 2014: 15 m The 15m deferred tax credit recognised in 2014 related to the release of tax liabilities recorded in prior years in respect of intangible assets recognised on certain acquisitions in Latin America.
As a result of a group restructure in 2014 those intangible assets became tax-deductible, and the deferred tax liabilities were consequently released.
ii Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses 5 m 2014: 16 m This relates to profits arising from the disposal of businesses where any taxable profit arising on the disposal is either exempt from tax under the relevant tax legislation or where capital losses are available to offset against those taxable profits, for which deferred tax assets were not previously recognised.
iii Tax losses not recognised in the current year 30m 2014: 32m This relates to losses not recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that there are insufficient taxable profits available to utilise those losses in the foreseeable future.
A significant proportion of these losses arise in the UK in both 2015 and 2014. iv Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions 11m 2014: 8m This relates to the effect of profits of the group being subject to tax at rates different from the current UK corporation tax rate of 20.25%.
The principal reason for the increase in 2015 is a rise in profits in the US, which are taxed at a composite rate of 37%.
v Adjustment for previous years reassessment of deferred taxes recoverability on losses 9 m 2014: 23 m Deferred tax assets are recognised on losses to the extent that these can be supported by profits forecast to be made in the foreseeable future, generally not exceeding five years.
These forecasts are updated and reviewed each year and, to the extent that these indicate an increase or decrease in the level of recoverable historical tax losses, deferred tax assets are amended accordingly.
vi Adjustment for previous years other 9m 2014: 7m This relates to a reassessment of the tax deductibility of expense items and provisions for unresolved tax issues as a result of case law developments and settlements with tax authorities.
vii Deferred tax credit Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 m 2014: 28 m This largely comprises the recognition of additional deferred tax assets in respect of prior years losses see v above.
The remainder relates to reassessments of accounting estimates relating to the timing of certain tax deductions in a number of countries.
At 31 December 2015, the group had total unprovided tax liabilities of approximately 50m 2014: 53m relating to unresolved tax issues in various jurisdictions and provided amounts totalling 16m 2014: 22m.
During 2015, the group paid 19m 2014: nil in respect of a disputed liability in order to reduce exposure to interest and penalties.
The following taxation charge credit has been recognised directly in equity within the statement of comprehensive income: 2015 2014 m m Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Change in fair value of cash flow and net investment hedging financial instruments 1 6 Actuarial gain on defined retirement benefit schemes 11 36 Total tax charged to other comprehensive income 10 30 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014.
140 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 14.
Dividends Pence per DKK per 2015 2014 share share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 5.54 0.4954 85 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2014 3.42 0.3198 53 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 5.82 0.6041 90 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2015 3.59 0.3793 55 145 138 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 5.82 0.5615 90 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
If so approved, it will be paid on 10 June 2016 to shareholders who are on the UK register on 29 April 2016.
The exchange rate used to translate it into Danish krone is that at 8 March 2016.
Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 2015 2014 Restated m m From continuing and discontinued operations Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 8 145 Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 1,545 1,545 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 0.5p 9.4p From continuing operations Earnings Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 8 145 Adjustment to exclude loss profit for the year from discontinued operations net of tax 2 80 Profit from continuing operations 10 65 Earnings per share from continuing operations pence Basic and diluted 0.6p 4.2p From discontinued operations Loss earnings per share from discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 0.1 p 5.2p See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014.
Acquisitions The group has incurred 17m 2014: 3m in the year on acquisitions mainly relating to individually immaterial businesses acquired in the Netherlands, Greece and Colombia and also includes the payment of 9m relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions in Latin America made in prior years.
In addition, during the year shareholder agreements were re-negotiated for certain joint ventures in the Asia Middle East region resulting in the group obtaining control of these operations.
The group accounted for these as acquisitions, consolidating the balance sheets from the date control was obtained.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Disposal of subsidiaries During the current year the group disposed of several small operations, with the most material being the disposal of the International Parcel Service business in Asia Middle East resulting in a profit of 12m.
In the prior year the group disposed of its US Government Solutions business, its cash business in Canada, its business in Norway, its locks business in Finland and its business in Sweden.
The net assets and profit on disposal of operations disposed of were as follows: 2015 2014 Restated m m Goodwill 54 Acquisition-related intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 2 27 Other non-current assets 77 Current assets 6 88 Liabilities 6 148 Net assets of operations disposed 2 99 Less: recycling of cumulative translation and hedging reserves 3 Net impact on consolidated statement of financial position due to disposals 2 96 Profit on disposal 9 77 Total consideration 11 173 Satisfied by: Cash received 14 161 Disposal costs 4 Used to repay debt 16 Total consideration relating to current year disposals 14 173 Additional consideration to be paid received relating to disposals completed in prior years 3 2 Total consideration recognised in the current year 11 175 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014, including an additional 6m gain recognised on disposal of discontinued operations in North America.
Included in proceeds in 2014 was 16m that was paid by the purchaser directly to the groups counterparties to repay existing debt at the time of disposal.
142 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 18.
Intangible assets Acquisition-related intangible assets Customer Other Goodwill Trademarks related Technology intangibles Total 2015 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 restated 2,011 32 654 9 220 2,926 Acquisition of businesses 14 7 21 Additions 2 24 26 Disposals 2 3 5 Re-classifications 2 1 2 1 2 Transferred to held for sale 14 2 3 19 Translation adjustments 47 14 4 65 At 31 December 2015 1,962 33 643 9 235 2,882 Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2015 restated 87 31 573 7 138 836 Amortisation charge 41 1 25 67 Impairment 67 67 Disposals 2 3 5 Re-classifications 1 1 2 Transferred to held for sale 6 2 2 10 Translation adjustments 14 10 4 28 At 31 December 2015 134 31 599 8 153 925 Carrying amount At 1 January 2015 restated 1,924 1 81 2 82 2,090 At 31 December 2015 1,828 2 44 1 82 1,957 2014 Cost At 1 January 2014 restated 2,037 32 657 9 200 2,935 Acquisition of businesses 2 2 Additions 34 34 Disposals 13 1 11 25 Translation adjustments 13 4 3 20 At 31 December 2014 restated 2,011 32 654 9 220 2,926 Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2014 restated 97 31 520 6 123 777 Amortisation charge 58 1 25 84 Disposals 3 3 8 14 Translation adjustments 7 2 2 11 At 31 December 2014 restated 87 31 573 7 138 836 Carrying amount At 1 January 2014 restated 1,940 1 137 3 77 2,158 At 31 December 2014 restated 1,924 1 81 2 82 2,090 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014, including a reduction of 15m in the carrying value of goodwill in North America at 1 January and 31 December 2014.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill allocation Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units CGUs which are expected to benefit from that business combination.
A significant portion of the groups goodwill was generated by the merger of the security services businesses of Group 4 Falck and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
Goodwill impairment testing The group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that any of these assets may be impaired.
The annual impairment test is performed prior to the year end when the budgeting process is finalised and is reviewed post year end.
The groups impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU with its recoverable amount.
CGUs for goodwill impairment testing purposes are identified at a country level including significant business units, as per the groups detailed management accounts.
Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, an impairment is deemed to have occurred where the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying value.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is generally determined by its value in use which is derived from discounted cash flow calculations.
The key inputs to the calculations are described below.
In certain circumstances where market prices can be ascertained for example through recent transactions or by reference to normal industry standard multiples, the fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount.
In the current year the value of goodwill in the Brazil secure solutions and Greece CGUs was supported by this valuation method.
Forecast cash flows All operating countries in the group are required to submit a budget for the next financial year for the year ending 31 December 2016 and their strategic plan forecasts for the following two years for the years ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018.
The revenue figures submitted in this exercise are used to derive a growth rate for the discounted cash flow calculation see the growth rate table below.
During the year, to align with best practice, the group has revised the period over which forecast projections are applied in the impairment model to revert to a period of five years from 15 years used previously.
In addition to this, the model now uses long-term externally-sourced country specific inflation rates to determine growth rates instead of applying 1% or 3% growth rates for developed or emerging markets respectively as used previously.
Forecast cash flows are projected from year 4 onwards by applying growth rates as detailed in the growth rate section below, and discounted using country specific risk-adjusted discount rates as described in the discount rate section.
Growth rate Growth rates are determined from the budgeted and forecast revenue for years 1-3 with year 4 being calculated to achieve a smooth reduction from the year 3 growth rate to the year 5 rate, which is the lower of the year 3 plan rate and the IMF long-term country-specific inflation rate.
The terminal value calculation also uses the long-term inflation rates as used in year 5.
This is detailed in the table below: Growth assumptions Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Terminal value Input Budget Strategic plan Strategic plan Projected to Projected lower Country-specific forecast forecast achieve midpoint of year 3 forecast long-term between years 3 or country inflation rate and 5 inflation Example 8% 7% 6% 4% 2% 2% Budgets and forecasts are reviewed by the group board In the above example, budgeted year 1 growth rate is 8%, forecast growth in year 2 is 7% and in year 3 is 6%.
The long-term country inflation rate is 2% so the growth rate is reduced in year 4 to be the midpoint between 6% in year 3 and 2% in year 5, i. e. 4%.
The terminal value calculation is then based on the long-term interest rate of 2%.
144 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Discount rate Discount rates are calculated for each CGU based on the relevant local risk-free rate adjusted for that CGUs specific risk-adjusted equity risk premium.
Details of how the key discount rate inputs are derived are given below: 31 Dec 31 Dec Input How determined 2015 2014 Risk-free rate Where possible, the risk-free rate is obtained from the local 2.52% 2.35% governments 20 year gilt bond rates.
Where these are unavailable the in UK in UK group uses the closest available information e. g. 10 year, or shorter term gilt rates.
UK equity risk The equity risk premium is determined for the UK by analysing a variety 6.4 % 5.0% premium of sources including economic studies carried out by Barclays Capital and in UK in UK others.
Operating Specific local equity risk premiums are based on the UK risk premium country equity adjusted for specific economic and financial risks.
The sources for these risk premium adjustments are the Institutional Investor Magazine and the IMF website as well as other studies by independent economists.
Leveraged beta Beta is a risk adjustment applied to the discount rate to reflect the risk 0.8 for 0.8 for of the groups operating companies relative to the market as a whole.
the the The groups beta is obtained from independent market studies and is group group adjusted for the appropriate leverage of the group.
Tax rate Local tax rates are applied to each CGU to calculate pre-tax cost 20% 21% of equity.
in UK in UK Debt margin The group applies a margin to the cost of debt for each CGU, with a 1.5% 1.5% higher margin applied to those CGUs operating in higher risk in UK in UK environments.
These margins range from 1.5% in less risky CGUs e. g. in the UK to 6.5% in more risky CGUs e. g. in Guinea and Sierra Leone.
Weighted The weighted average cost of capital is calculated by weighting the cost 8.6% 8.7% average cost of of equity and the cost of debt by the applicable debt: equity ratio at the in UK in UK capital pre-tax year end.
Lower of long-term country inflation rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate.
See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of 2014, including a reduction of 15m in the carrying value of goodwill in North America at 1 January and 31 December 2014.
Within the UK, the most significant CGUs and their goodwill carrying values are UK Care and Justice 247m, UK Cash Solutions 205m and UK Secure Solutions 107m.
Within the USA, the most significant CGU is US Commercial Security Solutions with goodwill of 347m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Intangible assets continued Impairment During the year ended 31 December 2015 impairment charges totalling 66m were recorded in respect of the groups goodwill, in the following CGUs within continuing operations: Goodwill Goodwill pre-impairment Impairment post-impairment m m m Brazil Technology 11 11 Estonia 56 25 31 Serbia 8 8 Papua New Guinea 5 5 Chile 2 2 China 4 4 South Africa Cash Solutions 22 9 13 Other impaired 2 2 Total 110 66 44 Other than for Estonia, these businesses have all been identified during the year for sale or closure and their carrying value has therefore been compared to their recoverable amount, being expected net proceeds from disposal.
Where the carrying value is more than the expected proceeds, any goodwill has been written down to the recoverable amount.
In the case of Estonia, forecasts have been considered within the challenging local economic and market environment and performance to date compared to expectations.
This has resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of 25m being incurred to reduce goodwill to its estimated recoverable amount.
Sensitivity to key assumptions The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculations relate to the discount rates and growth rates used.
The table below shows the additional impairment that would arise from an increase in discount rates by 1% and 3% with all other variables being equal, for example, taking the UK base rate from 8.6% to 9.6% and 11.6% or a decrease in growth rates by 1% and 3% to a minimum of 0%, with all other variables being equal, for example, taking the UK growth rate from 2.0% to 1.0% and 0.0% for the group in total and for each of its significant countries.
Lower of country growth rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate.
Including South Africa Cash Solutions.
146 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 19.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total 2015 m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 restated 248 887 1,135 Acquisition of businesses 2 2 Additions 9 114 123 Disposals 14 91 105 Re-classification 2 8 6 Re-classified as held for sale 6 45 51 Translation adjustments 7 43 50 At 31 December 2015 232 816 1,048 Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2015 restated 86 581 667 Depreciation charge 13 97 110 Disposals 8 83 91 Re-classification 4 4 Re-classified as held for sale 4 32 36 Translation adjustments 2 27 29 At 31 December 2015 89 532 621 Carrying amount At 1 January 2015 restated 162 306 468 At 31 December 2015 143 284 427 Land and Equipment and buildings vehicles Total 2014 m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 restated 241 972 1,213 Additions 12 100 112 Disposals 143 143 Re-classified as held for sale 5 5 Translation adjustments 5 37 42 At 31 December 2014 restated 248 887 1,135 Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2014 restated 79 617 696 Depreciation charge 15 108 123 Disposals 6 112 118 Re-classified as held for sale 3 3 Translation adjustments 2 29 31 At 31 December 2014 restated 86 581 667 Carrying amount At 1 January 2014 restated 162 355 517 At 31 December 2014 restated 162 306 468 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of 1 January and 31 December 2014, including the impact of the re-classification of certain operating leases to finance leases in Europe and Africa.
The net book value of equipment and vehicles held under finance leases was 53m 2014 restated: 64m.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 128m 2014 restated: 130m and the depreciation charge for the year was 20m 2014 restated: 28m.
The rights over assets held on finance leases are effectively security for lease liabilities.
These rights revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The net book value of equipment and vehicles includes 18m 2014: 18m of assets leased by the group to third parties under operating leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 27m 2014: 29m and the depreciation charge for the year was 5m 2014: 5m.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freeholds of 63m 2014: 85m, long leaseholds of 19m 2014: 19m and short leaseholds of 61m 2014: 58m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Investment in joint ventures The following is summarised aggregate financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures that are not material to the group, based on the amounts reported in the groups consolidated financial statements: 2015 2014 m m Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures 18 41 Groups share of: Profit from continuing operations 10 8 Total comprehensive income 10 8 During the year the group re-negotiated shareholder agreements in certain joint ventures in Asia Middle East resulting in the group obtaining control of these entities.
From the date the change in agreement was approved these entities have been accounted for as subsidiaries under the groups control in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements see note 16.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 9 12 Work in progress 11 11 Finished goods including consumables 83 85 Total inventories 103 108 22.
Investments Investments comprise primarily listed securities of 41m 2014: 36m held by the groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.
These are stated at their fair values based on quoted market prices consistent with level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
Use of these investments is restricted to the settlement of claims against the groups captive insurance subsidiaries.
As re-presented for the re-classification of certain investment balances in North America to within cash to more accurately reflect their nature see note 3 w. 23.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 Restated Notes m m Within current assets Accrued income 164 186 Trade debtors 970 943 Allowance for doubtful debts 53 50 Other debtors 89 137 Current tax receivable 46 34 Prepayments 82 72 Amounts due from construction contract customers 24 7 11 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 11 33 Total trade and other receivables included within current assets 1,316 1,366 Within non-current assets Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 50 57 Other debtors 34 40 Total trade and other receivables included within non-current assets 84 97 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of Africa in 2014. Credit risk on trade receivables There is limited concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the groups customers are both large in number and dispersed geographically in around 100 countries.
The groups largest customer is the UK Government which comprises approximately 10% 2014:10% of the total trade debtor balance as at 31 December 2015.
Group companies are required to follow Group Finance Manual guidelines with respect to assessing the credit worthiness of potential customers.
These guidelines include processes such as obtaining approval for credit limits over a set amount, performing credit checks and assessments and obtaining additional security where required.
Credit terms vary across the group and can range from 0 to 90 days to reflect the different risks within each country in which the group operates.
There is no group-wide rate of provision, and provision is made for debts according to local conditions and past default experience.
148 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 50 37 Amounts written off during the year 7 4 Increase in allowance 10 17 At 31 December 53 50 The ageing of trade debtors, net of allowance for doubtful debt, is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Accrued income 164 186 Not yet due 675 678 1-30 days overdue 146 124 31-60 days overdue 40 42 61-90 days overdue 21 19 91-180 days overdue 24 24 181-365 days overdue 11 6 Net trade debtors and accrued income 1,081 1,079 No additional provision has been made on the above amounts as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the group believes that the amounts are still recoverable.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The proportion of trade debtors at 31 December 2015 that were overdue for payment was 22% 2014: 20%.
The groups DSO measure days sales outstanding for continuing operations based on revenue from the last 90 days of the year is 50 days 2014: 47 days.
The directors believe that the fair value of trade and other receivables, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to their book value.
Construction contracts 2015 2014 Notes m m Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 23 7 11 Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables 29 1 2 Net balances relating to construction contracts 6 9 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 135 127 Less: progress billings 129 118 Net balances relating to construction contracts 6 9 At 31 December 2015, advances received from customers for contract work amounted to 4m 2014: 4m.
There were no material retentions held by customers for contract work at either balance sheet date.
All trade and other receivables arising from construction contracts are due for settlement within one year.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Disposal groups classified as held for sale As at 31 December 2015 disposal groups classified as held for sale include the assets and liabilities associated with certain operations in Asia Middle East, Europe and Latin America.
At 31 December 2014, disposal groups classified as held for sale included the assets and liabilities associated with the groups business in Costa Rica, which, having been classified as held for sale for more than 12 months and not yet sold, has been re-classified at 31 December 2015 into continuing operations.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Assets Goodwill 8 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 17 2 Inventories 3 Trade and other receivables current 21 4 Cash and cash equivalents 9 Total assets classified as held for sale 58 6 Liabilities Bank overdrafts 4 Bank loans 1 1 Trade and other payables 17 3 Retirement benefit obligations 2 Obligations under finance leases 5 Provisions 1 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 30 4 Net assets of disposal groups 28 2 26.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts An analysis of cash and cash equivalents reported within the consolidated cash flow statement between amounts reported within the consolidated statement of financial position is presented below: 2015 2014 Restated m m Cash and cash equivalents 443 422 Bank overdrafts 41 20 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts included within disposal groups classified as held for sale 5 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 407 402 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014, including the re-classification of certain investments in North America to within cash, to more accurately reflect their nature, and the impact of prior year errors in Africa.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise principally short-term money market deposits, current account balances and group-owned cash held in ATM machines and at 31 December 2015 earned interest at a weighted average rate of 0.8% 2014: 0.8%.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because wherever possible and in accordance with Group Treasury policy the cash is placed with bank counterparties that hold investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management system which included over 140 group companies at 31 December 2015.
The group met the conditions of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation allowing balances within this cash pool to be offset for reporting purposes.
At 31 December 2015 55m 2014: 300m of the cash balances and the equivalent amount of the overdraft balances were offset.
Cash and cash equivalents of 69m 2014: 64m are held by the groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.
Their use is restricted to the settlement of claims against the groups captive insurance subsidiaries.
150 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 27.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2015 2014 1 Restated m m Bank overdrafts 41 20 Bank loans 399 165 2 Loan notes 1,774 1,899 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,214 2,084 The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 141 176 In the second year 588 129 In the third to fifth years inclusive 1,078 1,648 After five years 407 131 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,214 2,084 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities : Bank overdrafts 41 20 Bank loans 75 60 Loan notes 25 96 141 176 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 2,073 1,908 1.
See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments relating to bank overdrafts included above in respect of Africa in 2014.
Loan notes includes 611m 2014: 687m of private loan notes and 1,163m 2014: 1,212m of public loan notes.
Analysis of bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes by currency: Sterling Euros US dollars Others Total m m m m m Bank overdrafts 11 5 16 31 41 Bank loans 215 170 14 399 Loan notes 421 812 541 1,774 At 31 December 2015 625 817 727 45 2,214 Bank overdrafts restated 1 3 14 2 20 Bank loans 48 108 9 165 Loan notes 419 858 622 1,899 At 31 December 2014 restated 468 861 744 11 2,084 Of the borrowings in currencies other than sterling, 991m 2014: 926m is designated as a net investment hedge.
The weighted average interest rates on bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes at 31 December 2015 adjusted for hedging were as follows: 2015 2014 % % Bank overdrafts 1.8 0.9 Bank loans 1.8 2.3 Private loan notes 3.9 4.3 Public loan notes 4.1 4.1 At 31 December 2015, the groups committed bank borrowings comprised a 1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility with a maturity date of January 2021.
The group, with the lenders permission, has an option to further extend maturity by one year to January 2022.
At 31 December 2015, undrawn committed available facilities amounted to 683m 2014: 998m.
Interest on all committed bank borrowing facilities is at prevailing Libor or Euribor rates, dependent upon the period of drawdown, plus an agreed margin, and re-priced within one year or less.
Borrowing at floating rates exposes the group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The management of this risk is discussed in note 31.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Nominal debt amount, for fair value carrying amount see note 31.
Exchange rates at 31 December 2015 or hedged exchange rates where applicable.
The groups average cost of gross borrowings in 2015, net of interest hedging, was 4.0% 2014: 4.1%.
During 2015 a 1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility provided by a consortium of lending banks at a drawn margin of 1.0% over LIBOR was put in place.
The facility matures in January 2021, with the option of a one year extension which if exercised gives the group facilities through to January 2022.
As at 31 December 2015 the drawings were US$245m and 155m.
The committed bank facilities and the private loan notes are subject to one financial covenant net debt to EBITDA ratio where EBITDA is calculated as group PBITA plus depreciation and amortisation of non-acquisition related intangible assets and non-compliance with the covenant may lead to an acceleration of maturity.
The group complied with the financial covenant throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014.
The group has not defaulted on, or breached the terms of, any material loans during the year.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans, the loan notes issued in July 2008 with the exception of 44m, 510m of the loan notes issued in May 2012 and 380m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 are stated at amortised cost.
The loan notes issued in March 2007, 44m of the loan notes issued in July 2008, the loan notes issued in May 2009, 90m of the loan notes issued in May 2012 and 120m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 are stated at amortised cost recalculated at an effective interest rate current at the balance sheet date as they are part of a fair value hedge relationship.
US$50m 34m 2014: US$200m 128m of the loan notes issued in July 2008 have a fair value market gain of 9m 2014: gain 28m resulting from the cross currency swaps fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.975.
325m 240m of the loan notes issued in May 2012 have a fair value market loss of 26m 2014: loss 14m predominately resulting from the cross currency swaps fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.222 and partly resulting from the cross currency swaps fixing the sterling and euro interest rates.
350m 258m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 have a fair value market loss of 19m 2014: loss 5m predominately resulting from the cross currency swaps fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.233 and partly resulting from the cross currency swaps fixing the sterling and euro interest rates.
152 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 28.
Obligations under finance leases Present Present value of value of Minimum Minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments 2015 2014 2015 2014 Restated Restated m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 23 28 20 25 In the second to fifth years inclusive 45 52 43 48 After five years 1 5 1 4 69 85 64 77 Less: future finance charges on finance leases 5 8 Present value of lease obligations 64 77 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 19 25 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 45 52 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of 2014, including the re-classification of certain operating leases to finance leases in Europe and Africa.
It is the groups policy to lease certain items of property, plant and equipment under finance leases.
The weighted average lease term is seven years 2014: seven years.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the weighted average effective borrowing rate was 6.3% 2014: 6.3%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 Restated Notes m m Within current liabilities: Trade creditors 164 185 Amounts due to construction contract customers 24 1 2 Other taxation and social security costs 172 186 Holiday pay and other wage-related accruals 321 323 Other creditors 73 103 Other accruals 216 226 Deferred income 66 75 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 23 25 Total trade and other payables included within current liabilities 1,036 1,125 Within non-current liabilities: Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 38 12 Other creditors 3 23 Total trade and other payables included within non-current liabilities 41 35 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of Europe and Africa in 2014.
Trade and other payables comprise principally amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases for continuing operations is 31 days 2014: 37 days.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date are presented below: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 Cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges 9 28 45 19 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 52 61 12 12 Commodity swaps 3 5 61 90 61 37 Less: non-current portion 50 57 38 12 Current portion 11 33 23 25 Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly.
The source of the market prices is Bloomberg and in addition the third party relationship counterparty banks.
The relevant currency yield curve is used to forecast the floating rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument which are discounted back to the balance sheet date.
This value is compared to the original transaction value giving a fair value of the instrument at the balance sheet date.
The mark to market valuation of the derivatives has fallen by 53m during the year, partly due to derivatives maturing during the year.
The interest rate, cross currency, foreign exchange and commodity swaps treated as cash flow hedges have the following maturities: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Within one year 21 4 4 In the second year 26 2 In the third year 9 19 14 In the fourth year 7 5 Total carrying value 9 28 49 25 The projected settlement of cash flows including accrued interest associated with derivatives treated as cash flow hedges are as follows: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Within one year 22 9 9 In the second year 22 6 In the third year 9 15 7 In the fourth year 7 1 Total cash flows 9 29 46 23 31.
Financial risk Capital management The group refinanced its 1.1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility with a 1bn facility signed on 7 January 2015.
The new facility was for five years with two extension options exercisable by the banks.
The first of these was exercised during the year, extending the facility maturity date to 7 January 2021.
Execution of the second option during 2016 would extend the facility to January 2022.
In April 2015, Standard & Poors confirmed the groups long term credit rating of BBB stable.
The groups policy is to maintain a net debt to underlying EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5 times.
At the end of 2015 the ratio was 3.3 times which reflects the effect of strengthening of sterling against currencies in emerging markets and a short term increase in working capital.
At 31 December 2015 the group had 683m of available and undrawn facilities from its committed 1bn bank facility.
Following the successful refinancing of its committed bank facility in January 2015, the group has no significant maturity until May 2017 and has a medium to long-term debt maturity profile.
The group is currently well placed to access finance from the debt capital markets and the bank market if required.
Borrowings are principally in sterling, US dollars and Euros reflecting the geographies of significant operational assets and profits.
154 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Liquidity risk The group mitigates liquidity risk by ensuring there are sufficient undrawn committed facilities available to it.
For more details of the groups bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes see note 27.
The percentage of available, but undrawn committed facilities during the course of the year was as follows: 31 December 2014 34% 31 March 2015 29% 30 June 2015 28% 30 September 2015 24% 31 December 2015 25% To reduce re-financing risk, group treasury obtains finance with a range of maturities and hence minimises the impact of a single material source of finance terminating on a single date.
Re-financing risk is further reduced by group treasury opening negotiations to either replace or extend any major medium-term facility at least 6-12 months before its termination date.
Maturity profile of loans and borrowings The contractual maturities of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts in the statement of financial position, including interest payments, estimated based on expectations at the reporting date, are shown below: Total Over Carrying Fair contractual Within 2-5 5 Amount Value cash flows 1 year years years 31 December 2015 Notes m m m m m m Investments 22 49 49 49 49 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 30 40 40 61 19 39 3 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 89 89 110 68 39 3 Derivative financial instruments foreign exchange forwards 30 5 5 Derivative financial instruments cross currency swaps 30 9 9 9 2 2 37 28 Financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 9 9 9 9 Net trade receivables 23 1,081 1,081 1,081 1,081 Cash and cash equivalents 26 443 443 443 443 Loans and receivables 1,524 1,524 1,524 1,524 Loan notes issued May 2009, 7.75% maturing 2019 27 352 404 459 27 432 Loan notes issued March 2007, 5.86%-6.06%, maturing 2017-22 27 339 329 366 18 270 78 Financial liabilities designated as fair value hedge 691 733 825 45 702 78 Derivative financial instruments cross currency swaps 30 45 45 43 14 19 534 572 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 30 1 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments commodity swaps 30 3 3 3 3 Financial liabilities designated as cash flow hedges 49 49 47 9 38 Loan notes issued July 2008, 6.78%-7.56%, maturing 2016-20 27 272 300 332 44 288 Loan notes issued May 2012, 2.875%, maturing 2017 27 442 456 468 13 455 Loan notes issued December 2012, 2.625%, maturing 2018 27 369 388 398 10 388 Bank loans 27 399 399 399 75 324 Overdrafts 27 41 41 41 41 Finance lease liabilities 28 64 64 64 19 45 Trade payables 29 164 164 164 164 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 1,751 1,812 1,866 366 1,500 44m of July 2008 loan notes, 90m 66m of May 2012 loan notes and 120m 89m of December 2012 loan notes are held in fair value hedge relationships.
Note: In the table above, certain values are presented gross, to show both the asset and the liability.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial risk continued Maturity profile of loans and borrowings continued Total Carrying contractual Within 1 2-5 Over 5 Amount Fair Value cash flows year years years 1 31 December 2014 restated Notes m m m m m m Investments 22 44 44 44 44 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 30 49 49 65 18 43 4 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 93 93 109 62 43 4 Derivative financial instruments foreign exchange forwards 30 1 1 1 8 7 Derivative financial instruments cross currency swaps 30 28 28 28 105 84 38 31 Financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 29 29 29 22 7 Net trade receivables 23 1,079 1,079 1,079 1,079 Cash and cash equivalents 26 422 422 422 422 Loans and receivables 1,501 1,501 1,501 1,501 Loan notes issued May 2009, 7.75% maturing 2019 27 354 424 486 27 459 Loan notes issued March 2007, 5.77%-6.06%, maturing 2014-22 27 330 321 363 17 268 78 Financial liabilities designated as fair value hedge 684 745 849 44 727 78 Derivative financial instruments cross currency swaps 30 19 19 16 15 19 580 592 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 30 1 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments commodity swaps 30 5 5 5 4 1 Financial liabilities designated as cash flow hedges 25 25 22 9 13 Loan notes issued July 2008, 6.43%-7.56%, maturing 2015-20 27 357 398 439 121 267 51 Loan notes issued May 2012, 2.875%, 2 maturing 2017 27 467 490 506 13 493 Loan notes issued December 2012, 2 2.625%, maturing 2018 27 391 414 429 10 419 Bank loans 27 165 165 165 60 105 Overdrafts 27 20 20 20 20 Finance lease liabilities 28 77 77 77 25 50 2 Trade payables 29 185 185 185 185 Other liabilities 29 11 11 11 11 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 1,673 1,760 1,832 434 1,345 53 The gross cash flows disclosed in the tables above represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes and which are usually not closed out before contractual maturity.
The disclosure shows net cash flow amount for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement e. g. forward exchange contracts.
See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014.
90m 70m of May 2012 loan notes and 120m 93m of December 2012 loan notes are held in fair value hedge relationships.
156 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Market risk Currency risk and forward foreign exchange contracts The group conducts business in many currencies.
Transaction risk is limited since, wherever possible, each business operates and conducts its financing activities in local currency.
However, the group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and it is in consequence subject to foreign exchange risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Treasury policy is to manage significant translation risks in respect of net operating assets and its consolidated net debt EBITDA ratio by holding foreign currency denominated loans, where possible.
The group no longer uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge the residual portion of net assets not hedged by way of loans.
The group believes that cash flow should not be put at risk by using these instruments in order to preserve the carrying value of net assets.
The group has hedged a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations in the translation into sterling of its overseas net assets through these loans in foreign currencies.
At 31 December 2015, the groups US dollar and Euro net assets were approximately 83% and 90% respectively hedged by foreign currency loans 2014: US dollar 78%, Euro 74%.
As at 31 December 2015, net debt held in US dollar and Euro and in those currencies officially pegged to these two currencies, equated broadly to a ratio of 2.5 times EBITDA generated from these currencies 2014: 2.3 times EBITDA.
Translation adjustments arising on the translation of foreign currency loans are recognised in equity to match translation adjustments on foreign currency equity investments which qualify as net investment hedges with no residual impact to equity.
Cross currency swaps with a nominal value of 25m are in place hedging the foreign currency risk on US$50m of the second US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.9750.
Cross currency swaps with a nominal value of 266m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 325m of the Euro public notes issued in May 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2217.
Cross currency swaps with a nominal value of 284m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 350m of the Euro public notes issued in December 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2332.
Assuming the 2015 US dollar and the Euro foreign exchange rate market movements against sterling in 2015 were repeated in 2016, the fair value net gain on the cross currency swaps which hedge part of the currency loan notes would be expected to fall by 23m and this would impact equity.
Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps Borrowing at floating rates as described in note 27 exposes the group to cash flow interest rate risk, which the group manages within policy limits approved by the directors.
Interest rate swaps and, to a limited extent, forward rate agreements are utilised to fix the interest rate on a proportion of borrowings on a reducing scale over forward periods up to a maximum of five years.
At 31 December 2015 the nominal value of such contracts was 109m in respect of US dollar 2014: 103m and 52m in respect of Euro 2014: 54m : their weighted average interest rate was 1.3% US dollar 2014: 1.3% and 0.6% Euro 2014: 0.6 %, and their weighted average period to maturity was two years.
All the interest rate hedging instruments are designated and fully effective as cash flow hedges and movements in their fair value have been deferred in equity.
The US Private Placement market is predominantly a fixed rate market, with investors preferring a fixed rate return over the life of the loan notes.
At the time of the first issue in March 2007, the group was comfortable with the proportion of floating rate exposure not hedged by interest rate swaps and therefore rather than take on a higher proportion of fixed rate debt arranged fixed to floating swaps effectively converting the fixed coupon on the Private Placement to a floating rate.
Following the swaps the resulting average coupon on the US Private Placement is Libor 60bps.
These swaps have been documented as fair value hedges of the US Private Placement fixed interest loan notes, with the movements in their fair value posted to profit and loss at the same time as the movement in the fair value of the hedged item.
The interest on the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, the GBP public notes issued in May 2009, 510m of the Euro public notes issued in May 2012 and 380m of the Euro public notes issued in December 2012 was initially kept at fixed rate.
In April 2014, the interest rate on 44m of the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008 and on all the GBP public notes issued in May 2009 was swapped from fixed to floating for a period of three years using derivatives.
All three public notes have a coupon step up of 1.25% which is triggered should the credit rating of G4S plc fall below investment grade.
The core group borrowings are held in US dollar, Euro and sterling.
Although the impact of rising interest rates is largely shielded by fixed rate loans and interest rate swaps which provide certainty on the vast majority of the exposure, some interest rate risk remains.
A 1% increase in interest rates across the yield curve in each of these currencies with the 31 December 2015 debt position constant throughout 2016, would lead to an expectation of an additional interest charge of 12m in the 2016 financial year 2015: 11m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial risk continued Market risk continued Commodity risk and commodity swaps The groups principal commodity risk relates to the fluctuating level of diesel prices, particularly affecting its cash solutions businesses.
Commodity swaps and commodity options are used to fix synthetically part of the exposure and reduce the associated cost volatility.
Commodity swaps hedging 10 million litres of projected 2016 diesel consumption were in place at 31 December 2015.
Commodity expense is not material in the context of the groups consolidated cost base.
Counterparty credit risk The groups strategy for credit risk management is to set minimum credit ratings for counterparties and monitor these on a regular basis.
For treasury-related transactions, the policy limits the aggregate credit risk assigned to a counterparty.
The utilisation of a credit limit is calculated by applying a weighting to the notional value of each transaction outstanding with each counterparty based on the type and duration of the transaction.
The total mark-to-market value outstanding with each counterparty is also closely monitored against policy limits assigned to each counterparty.
For short-term transactions under one year, at inception of the transaction, the financial counterparty must be investment grade rated by either the Standard & Poors or Moodys rating agencies.
For long-term transactions, at inception of the transaction, the financial counterparty must have a minimum rating of BBB Baa1 from Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Treasury transactions are dealt with the groups relationship banks, all of which have a strong investment grade rating.
At 31 December 2015 the largest two counterparty exposures related to treasury transactions were 19m and 18m and both were held with institutions with a long term Standard & Poors credit rating of A.
These exposures represent 38% and 36% of the carrying values of the treasury transactions, with a fair value gain at the balance sheet date.
Both of these banks had significant loan commitments outstanding to G4S plc at 31 December 2015.
The group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management system with a wholly-owned subsidiary of an A rated bank.
At year end credit balances of 55m were pooled with debit balances of 57m, resulting in a net pool overdraft balance of 2m.
There is legal right of set off under the pooling agreement and an overdraft facility of 3m.
At an operating level the minimum investment grade rating criteria applies.
Exceptionally, where required by local country circumstances, counterparties with no, or a non-investment grade, rating can be approved as counterparties for a period of up to 12 months.
Due to the groups global geographical footprint and exposure to multiple industries, there is minimal concentration risk.
Retirement benefit obligations The group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution, multi-employer and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The majority of the retirement benefit arrangements operated by the group are of a defined contribution structure, where the employer contribution and resulting income statement charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes and charged to the income statement totalled 96m 2014: 96m.
In the UK, following the closure of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants in 2004, the main scheme for new employees is a contracted-in defined contribution scheme.
Multi-employer arrangement In the Netherlands, most employees are members of the Security Industry Wide Pension Fund IWPF.
This is a career-average defined benefit plan.
Pensionable salary is subject to a cap, and minus an offset that reflects social security levels.
Withdrawal from the scheme is only possible under certain strict conditions determined by Dutch law and by the pension fund board of the IWPF.
The plan is funded by a premium that is set by the IWPF board in line with the financing rules that state that the premium should cover the cost of the annual accrual of pension benefits.
Historically, the premium has been 30% of pensionable salaries and the employer pays 60% of this premium and the employees the remaining 40%.
The financing rules specify that an employer is not obliged to pay any further premiums in respect of previously accrued benefits.
This means that in case of insufficient funding, the benefits of participants could, in theory, be reduced.
The current solvency ratio is 103.5% December 2015.
The required solvency ratio according to Dutch law is 120.7% as at 31 December 2014.
Should a surplus appear within the scheme the board will decide if a reduction in premium is possible although this would only be possible at much higher solvency levels.
158 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements The scheme is not accounted for as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits as it is not possible to identify the groups share of the schemes assets and liabilities.
As a result, and in line with general practice for such schemes, the scheme is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19.
The Netherlands Cash Solutions Pension Plan the Cash Solutions scheme is a separate scheme operated by the group but is required to provide benefits at least equivalent to the IWPF, and in particular pension increases in payment and deferment, as well as revaluation of active members rights in the Cash Solutions scheme have to follow the multi-employer scheme which applies a conditional approach.
At the end of December 2015, liability for future pension accrual in respect of the Cash Solutions scheme was transferred to the IWPF, resulting in a curtailment gain of 5m.
Past service accruals remained with the Cash Solutions scheme the scheme is insured so longevity risk on the base level of insured pension that is before increases is carried by the insurer, and any bonuses from the insurers returns may defray the cost of pension increases.
Accordingly, there is a counterparty risk against the insurer.
During 2014 the assets and past and future service liabilities of the Netherlands Securicor Staff Pension Plan were transferred to the IWPF, resulting in a settlement gain of 21m.
Defined benefit arrangements The group operates several funded defined retirement benefit schemes where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the groups primary scheme is in the UK, it also operates the Cash Solutions scheme and other less material plans elsewhere.
Under funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
The amounts recognised in income in relation to the material funded schemes are included within the following categories in the income statement: 2015 2014 m m Cost of sales 7 8 Administration expenses 2 2 Specific items 5 21 Net finance costs 9 20 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 13 9 The 5m specific item in 2015 relates to the curtailment gain on the Cash Solutions scheme, and the 21m in 2014 related to the settlement gain on the Netherlands Securicor Staff Pension Plan.
There are also various less material unfunded arrangements, for which the group does not hold related assets separate from the group.
In aggregate, other unfunded arrangements incurred 1m 2014: 1m in cost of sales, 3m 2014: 2m in finance costs and a 3m 2014: 5m actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
The defined benefit obligation DBO, assets and balance sheet provisions for defined benefit schemes are as follows: DBO Assets Deficit 2015 m m surplus UK sections: Securicor 1,642 1,448 194 Group 4 362 291 71 GSL 214 290 76 Total UK 2,218 2,029 189 Netherlands 63 47 16 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,281 2,076 205 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 74 Total provision for all defined benefit schemes 279 DBO Assets Deficit 2014 m m surplus UK sections: Securicor 1,642 1,419 223 Group 4 376 285 91 GSL 204 279 75 Total UK 2,222 1,983 239 Netherlands 73 48 25 Other 9 9 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,304 2,040 264 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 55 Total provision for all defined benefit schemes 319 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued UK Defined Benefit Scheme The defined benefit scheme in the UK accounts for 92% 2014: 91% of the net balance sheet liability for material funded defined retirement benefit schemes.
It comprises three sections: the Group 4 section which is the pension scheme demerged from the former Group 4 Falck A S, the Securicor section, responsibility for which the group assumed on 20 July 2004 with the acquisition of Securicor plc, and the GSL section, responsibility for which the group assumed on 12 May 2008 with the acquisition of GSL.
The UK scheme is closed to future accrual apart from some sub-sections of the GSL section, and for most members defines the pension based on final salary.
The GSL section has historically remained open to provide a facility to accept former public-sector employees who join the group through outsourcings.
In the Group 4 and Securicor sections, members retain their link to final salary where appropriate on their benefits accrued up to closure in 2011.
The participants of the UK pension scheme sections can be analysed as follows: Group 4 GSL Securicor At 5 April 2015 section section section Total Active participants Number 607 607 Average age N A 49.0 N A 49.0 Deferred participants Number 3,653 1,236 8,535 13,424 Average age 52.0 51.0 53.0 52.5 Pensioner participants Number 3,346 883 9,551 13,780 Average age 71.0 65.0 69.0 69.2 There is a mix of fixed and inflation-dependent pension increases in payment and deferment which vary from member to member according to their membership history and the section of the scheme.
The discounted weighted average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections are respectively 16 years Group 4 section, 18 years GSL section and 17 years Securicor section.
As at 31 December 2014 the discounted weighted average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections were 18 years Group 4 section, 20 years GSL section and 19 years Securicor section.
The scheme is set up under UK law and governed by a Trustee company which is responsible for the schemes investments, administration and management.
The Board of the Trustee Company is comprised of an independent chairman and further independent, group and scheme membership representatives.
The current schedule of deficit recovery contributions provides for a contribution of approximately 47m during 2016.
In addition, the company has pledged a share of any material disposal proceeds to the pension scheme to be shared in the same proportion as the pension scheme deficit bears to overall group indebtedness and has agreed that additional contributions would be made in the event that the average annual dividend payment to ordinary shareholders over the three financial years 2015, 2016, 2017 exceeds a certain threshold or in the event that the company makes a significant special dividend payment or equivalent capital return, to its ordinary shareholders over the same period.
A funding valuation is carried out for the schemes Trustee every three years by an independent firm of actuaries.
Depending on the outcome of that valuation a schedule of future contributions is negotiated: the group has guaranteed any contributions due from its subsidiaries.
The group is currently working with the Trustees on the next valuation which has an effective date of 5 April 2015 and the results of this work are expected to be completed in the second half of 2016.
The group has concluded that it should allow for a refund of any residual surplus in all three sections of the UK Scheme after all benefits have been paid.
Therefore no adjustments for asset ceiling or additional liabilities under the IFRIC 14 interpretation are made.
At present the GSL section has a surplus and the other two sections have deficits.
The IASB is proposing to amend IFRIC 14 and the group will assess if there are any implications once the final form of the revised interpretation is clearer.
160 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Expected contributions The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the UK schemes during the financial year commencing 1 January 2016 in respect of the ongoing accrual of benefits should be approximately 5m and it is anticipated that these will remain at a similar level in the medium term subject to changes in financial conditions.
Principal risks The groups pension schemes create a number of risk exposures.
Annual increases on benefits are, to a varying extent from scheme to scheme, dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable are future inflation levels including the impact of inflation on future salary increases and the actual longevity of the membership.
Benefits payable will also be influenced by a range of other factors including member decisions on matters such as when to retire and the possibility to draw benefits in different forms.
A key risk is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns fall short of those anticipated when setting the contributions to the pension plans.
For the UK funding valuation those assumed investment returns for funding valuations are set based on fixed margins over the LIBOR swap curve.
The management of the pension fund assets has been delegated to an asset manager which manages the assets against a liability benchmark.
The key parameters of this mandate can be summarised as follows: An asset mix which is managed dynamically over time rather than a set strategic allocation Interest rate and inflation risk is managed with the benchmark of hedging 100% of these risks as a percentage of the asset value through the use of debt instruments government bonds and derivatives Currency risk is managed with the objective of hedging at least 70% of the overseas currency exposure in the portfolio through the use of forward foreign currency contracts All pension schemes are regulated by the relevant jurisdictions.
These include extensive legislation and regulatory mechanisms that are subject to change and may impact the groups pension schemes.
Regarding financial reporting measures, the IAS 19 liability measurement DBO and the service cost are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions made on a range of demographic and financial matters that are used to project the expected benefit payments, the most important of these assumptions being about future inflation and salary growth levels and the assumptions made about life expectation.
The DBO and service cost are also very sensitive to the IAS 19 discount rate, which determines the discounted value of the projected benefit payments.
The discount rate depends on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds.
Investment strategies are set with funding rather than IAS 19 considerations in mind and do not seek to provide a specific hedge against the IAS 19 measurement of liabilities.
As a result the difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be volatile.
Assumptions and sensitivities The weighted average principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: UK Netherlands Key assumptions used at 31 December 2015 Discount rate 3.8% 2.4% Expected rate of salary increases 3.2% 1.9% Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
3.0% 0.9% Inflation 3.1% 1.9% Key assumptions used at 31 December 2014 Discount rate 3.7% 2.3% Expected rate of salary increases 3.1% 1.8% Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
IAS 19 specifies that pension liabilities should be discounted at appropriate high-quality corporate bond rates.
The group considers that it is appropriate to consider AA-rated corporate bonds as high quality and therefore have used discount rates based on yields on such bonds corresponding to the liability profile of the schemes.
The effect of a movement in the discount rate applicable in the UK would alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: Increase Increase decrease in the decrease in the DBO of the UK DBO of the UK Scheme Scheme 2015 2014 Sensitivity analysis m m Discount rate assumption being 0.5% higher 165 186 Discount rate assumption being 0.5% lower 188 211 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions and sensitivities continued The effect of a movement in RPI inflation applicable in the UK alters reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: Increase Increase decrease in the decrease in the DBO of the UK DBO of the UK Scheme Scheme 2015 2014 Sensitivity analysis m m Inflation assumption being 0.5% higher 71 87 Inflation assumption being 0.5% lower 73 80 The above sensitivities allow for inflation-dependent assumptions such as salary growth and relevant pension increases to vary corresponding to the inflation assumption variation.
Due to the caps and floors on pension increases a certain movement in the inflation assumption will not generally result in the same movement in the pension increase assumption.
In addition to the above, the group uses appropriate mortality assumptions when calculating the schemes obligations.
The mortality tables used for the scheme in the UK are: Birth year table S1P[M F]A Base with future improvements in line with CMI 2013 Core projections, based on a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% p. a. and allowing for individual scaling factors based on the majority analysis carried out as part of the last funding valuation.
The resulting assumed life expectancy of a male member of the UK schemes currently aged 65 is 22 years.
The assumed life expectancy at 65 of a male currently aged 52 is 23 years.
At those ages, the assumed life expectancy for a female member is between 2 and 3 years longer than for a male member.
The effect of a one year change in this UK life expectancy assumption is to alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately 93m 2014: 105m.
The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the DBO to key assumptions should not be interpreted as the group expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening.
The amounts recognised on the balance sheet in respect of the material funded defined benefit schemes and the various components of income, OCI and cash flow are as follows: DBO Assets Provision 2015 m m m Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at beginning of the year 2,304 2,040 264 Amounts recognised in income Current service cost 7 7 Curtailment gain 5 5 Interest on obligations and assets 83 74 9 Administration costs paid from plan assets 2 2 Total amounts recognised in income 87 74 13 Remeasurements Actuarial gain change in financial assumptions 18 18 Actuarial loss change in demographic assumptions 34 34 Actuarial gain experience 34 34 Return on assets in excess of interest 3 3 Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI 18 3 21 Cash Employer contributions 50 50 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid from plan assets 81 81 Net cash 79 29 50 Other Exchange rates 4 3 1 Transfers to immaterial schemes 9 9 Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at end of the year 2,281 2,076 205 Total remeasurements recognised in OCI of 18m are shown net of remeasurements relating to other unfunded schemes of 3m.
162 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements DBO Assets Total 2014 m m m Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at beginning of the year 2,132 1,660 472 Amounts recognised in income Current service cost 8 8 Settlements and past service costs 80 59 21 Interest on obligations and assets 92 72 20 Administration costs paid from plan assets 2 2 Total amounts recognised in income 20 11 9 Remeasurements Actuarial loss change in financial assumptions 231 231 Actuarial loss change in demographic assumptions 2 2 Actuarial gain experience 4 4 Return on assets in excess of interest 392 392 229 392 163 Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI Cash Employer contributions 50 50 Employee contributions 4 4 Benefits paid from plan assets 72 72 Net cash 68 18 50 Other Exchange rates 9 5 4 Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at end of the year 2,304 2,040 264 Total remeasurements recognised in OCI of 155m are shown net of remeasurements relating to non-controlling interests of 3m and other unfunded schemes of 5m.
The contribution from sponsoring companies in 2015 included 44m 2014: 42m of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the UK schemes.
The composition of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows: UK Netherlands Total 2015 m m m Equity 648 8 656 Bonds 254 33 287 Other 1,127 6 1,133 Total 2,029 47 2,076 UK Netherlands Total 2014 m m m Equity 491 9 500 Bonds 351 39 390 Other 1,141 1,141 Total 1,983 48 2,031 A more detailed split of assets of the UK scheme at 31 December 2015 is presented in the table below: 2015 2014 m m Equity 574 424 Private equity 74 67 Government bonds 254 351 Credit 226 283 Property 65 57 Macro-oriented 319 278 Multi-strategy 104 55 Derivatives 123 263 Cash and cash equivalents 290 205 2,029 1,983 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions and sensitivities continued Within the UK pension fund, the Equity, Credit, Macro-orientated and Multi-strategy sub-categories consist of pooled vehicles investing predominantly in assets with quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds are issued by the UK government and have quoted prices in active markets.
Other UK investments are predominantly not quoted.
Derivatives include a range of interest rate and inflation linked swaps, forward currency contracts, equity index total return swaps, equity options, and futures.
Investing in interest rate and inflation linked swaps is designed to mitigate the impact of future changes in interest rates and inflation.
None of the pension scheme assets are held in the groups own financial instruments or in any assets held or used by the group.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Onerous Employee customer Property benefits Restructuring Claims contracts and other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 restated 24 17 91 47 15 194 Additional provision in the year 4 48 43 65 18 178 On acquisition of subsidiary 6 6 Utilisation of provision 5 49 31 28 5 118 Transfers and re-classifications 9 2 3 1 13 Unused amounts reversed 1 3 4 Translation adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2015 19 14 100 83 26 242 Included in current liabilities 90 Included in non-current liabilities 152 242 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of Europe and Africa in 2014.
Employee benefits The provision for employee benefits is in respect of any employee benefits which accrue over the working lives of the employees, typically including items such as long service awards and termination indemnity schemes.
The groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the future benefit that employees have earned at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
During 2015 liabilities of 9m relating to severance schemes in certain businesses in Asia Middle East were reclassified to retirement benefit obligations to more accurately reflect the substance of the schemes and to allow for IAS 19 R accounting.
Restructuring Restructuring provisions include amounts for redundancy payments, and the costs of closure of activities in acquired businesses and discontinued operations.
Settlement of restructuring provisions is highly probable.
The timing is uncertain but is generally likely to be short term.
In the year the group incurred restructuring costs of 44m 2014: 29m within other separately disclosed items relating to the group wide transformation and a further 4m 2014: 4m associated with costs incurred in the normal course of business and hence included in PBITA.
Claims Claims provisions represent any outstanding litigation claims against the group that are likely to lead to the outflow of funds in the future, including provisions within the captive insurance companies to cover where appropriate anticipated claims incurred as at the balance sheet date, based on actuarial assessments to calculate the liabilities.
The claims reserves are held by the wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries in Guernsey and the US which underwrite part of the groups cash solutions, general liability, workers compensation and auto liability policies.
In the year the group provided 16m in relation to these claims.
The provisions are subject to regular actuarial review and are adjusted as appropriate.
Settlement of these provisions is highly probable but both the value of the final settlements and their timing is uncertain, dependent upon the outcome of ongoing processes to determine both liability and quantum in respect of a wide range of claims or possible claims.
Onerous customer contracts The present value of estimated future net cash outflows relating to onerous customer contracts is provided for where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations in a customer contract exceed the economic benefits 164 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements expected to be received under the contract.
During the year this included 65m of additional provisions mainly relating to updating estimates in respect of future losses on legacy UK government and PFI contracts, including the Compass contract.
These additional provisions were recorded within specific items in the consolidated income statement.
Under the UK Compass asylum seeker contract with the Home Office, the group provides accommodation, transportation and subsistence services for asylum seekers whilst their claims are being processed.
This contract commenced in 2012 and runs to 1 September 2017, with a potential extension of a further two years.
In 2014, an onerous contract provision was recognised in relation to the then-current assumptions regarding asylum seeker numbers, the duration and cost of accommodation and support services.
The group experienced a significant increase in the number of new asylum seekers between November 2015 and January 2016 and as a result the number of asylum seekers in the groups care increased by 9.6% year-on-year.
The Compass provision has been updated based upon our best estimate of the increase in asylum seekers assigned to the group, the availability of suitable accommodation approved by local authorities and the speed of processing of applications by the immigration authority.
To date, the Compass contract has not been extended and the onerous contract provision has been increased by 20m to 31m covering the period to August 2017.
Should the contract be extended for the period to August 2019 then, based on the same assumptions as the current provision, a further provision for 57m would be required.
The other principal onerous contract provision relates to a previously identified PFI contract entered into in 2005 and is subject to on-going discussions with the customer.
A best estimate has been made based on a range of possible outcomes including a commercial or dispute resolution process.
Unused amounts reversed of 3m includes a 2m release that was recorded within specific items.
Net unwinding of discounts charged was not material.
Property and other Included within property and other provisions are future liabilities for all properties sub-let at a shortfall, for the cost of replacing assets where there is a present contractual requirement, for long-term idle, leased properties and for certain customer claims on contracts that are related to the performance on a contract but do not form part of onerous customer contract provisions.
Whilst the likelihood of settlement of these obligations is considered probable, there is uncertainty over their value and duration.
Included in property and other provisions are contract-related provisions of 14m 2014: 6m and onerous property lease provisions of 12m 2014: 9m.
Contingent liabilities To date, the Compass contract has not been extended and the onerous contract provision covers the period to August 2017.
Other contingent liabilities exist in respect of agreements, claims, regulatory and compliance matters entered into in the normal course of business, none of which are individually or collectively significant.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Retirement benefit Intangible Other temporary obligations assets Tax losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2015 restated 64 7 41 75 173 Charge credit to the income statement 7 6 10 5 14 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Charge credit to equity 12 3 9 Translation adjustments 2 2 Transfers other 3 3 At 31 December 2015 45 3 51 85 178 At 1 January 2014 restated 99 37 30 71 163 Charge credit to the income statement 3 26 11 10 44 Disposal of subsidiaries 4 19 15 Charge credit to equity 32 6 26 Transfers other 7 7 At 31 December 2014 restated 64 7 41 75 173 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Deferred tax continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where permitted.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset : 2015 2014 Restated m m Deferred tax liabilities 9 19 Deferred tax assets 187 192 Total deferred tax position 178 173 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments included above in respect of 2014, including additional net deferred tax assets recognised in North America and Europe.
At 31 December 2015, the group had unutilised tax losses of approximately 813m 2014: 771m potentially available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 51m 2014: 41m has been recognised in respect of approximately 263m 2014: 166m of gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 550m 2014: 605m of gross losses due to the unpredictability and availability of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions and the fact that a significant proportion of such losses remains unaudited by the relevant tax authorities.
In certain cases, there are continuing structural issues which prevent the utilisation of losses within the foreseeable future.
Losses which will never be utilised, for example due to the operation of statute, are not included in the above figures.
Approximately 414m 2014: 439m of the gross unrecognised losses relate to the UK group.
Their utilisation is dependent upon the profitability of particular trading and corporate entities.
The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 18.
The rate of utilisation of these losses will occur at different rates due to the incidence and timing of profits within these entities which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred tax assets.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are gross losses of 38m 2014: 37m which will expire between 2016 and 2025.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The group is reviewing the potential impact of proposals announced in the UK Budget in March 2016 to extend the period over which UK tax losses can be utilised.
At 31 December 2015, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with the undistributed earnings of non-UK subsidiaries and joint ventures was 1,334m 2014: 1,102m.
A deferred tax liability of 3m 2014: 3m has been recognised on undistributed earnings, based on expected distributions from such subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Other temporary differences varies by country, and includes items relating to the local tax treatment of fixed assets, employee benefits, and provisions.
Other reserves Hedging Translation Merger Reserve for Total other reserve reserve reserve own shares reserves m m m m m At 1 January 2015 restated 1 113 426 18 296 Total comprehensive loss attributable to equity shareholders of parent 2 97 95 At 31 December 2015 3 210 426 18 201 At 1 January 2014 as reported 21 59 734 18 636 Re-classification of hedging reserves 26 23 3 At 1 January 2014 5 82 734 18 639 Total comprehensive loss attributable to equity shareholders of parent 4 28 32 Transfer to retained earnings 308 308 Recycling of translation reserves on disposal restated 3 3 At 31 December 2014 restated 1 113 426 18 296 166 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Other reserves include: Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
During the year certain items in the hedging reserve were re-classified into the translation reserve to more accurately reflect the groups accounting policy with respect to net investment hedging.
The amount recognised in the hedging reserve includes a fair value loss on the hedging instruments of 42m 2014: 36m and a gain of 44m 2014: 30m.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the companys net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Merger reserve The merger reserve comprises reserves arising upon the merger between the former Group 4 Falck A S and the former Group 4 Securitas BV in 2000 and the acquisition of Securicor plc by the group in 2004.
In accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 the 308m premium on ordinary shares issued in the groups 9.99% share placement in August 2013 was initially recorded in the merger reserve, and was transferred to retained earnings in 2014.
Reserve for own shares An employee benefit trust established by the group held 6,320,144 shares at 31 December 2015 2014: 6,408,450 shares to satisfy the vesting of awards under the performance share plan and performance-related schemes.
During the year no shares were purchased by the trust, whilst 88,306 shares were used to satisfy the vesting of awards under the schemes.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, do not receive dividends and are excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
Distributable reserves As at 31 December 2015 the parent company of the group had distributable reserves of 1,078m.
Analysis of net debt A reconciliation of net debt to amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position is presented below: 2015 2014 Restated m m Cash and cash equivalents 443 422 Investments 49 44 Net cash and overdrafts included within assets held for sale 5 Net debt included within assets held for sale 6 1 Bank overdrafts 41 20 Bank loans 399 165 Loan notes 1,774 1,899 Obligations under finance leases 64 77 Fair value of loan note derivative financial instruments 5 57 Total net debt 1,782 1,639 An analysis of movements in net debt in the year is presented below: 2015 2014 Restated m m Increase decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts per consolidated cash flow statement 27 123 Purchase of investments 1 2 Movement in debt and lease financing 139 91 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 111 30 Net additions to finance leases 4 21 Movement in net debt in the year 107 9 Translation adjustments 36 24 Net debt at the beginning of the year 1,639 1,606 Net debt at the end of the year 1,782 1,639 See note 3 w for an explanation and analysis of certain prior year adjustments and re-classifications included above in respect of 2014.
In addition the group has changed its definition of net debt to include certain cross-currency swap liabilities specifically relating to the groups borrowings that were previously excluded.
As a result, net debt as at 31 December 2014 increased by 19m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee As at 31 December 2015, the group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 Restated m m Within one year 107 94 In the second to fifth years inclusive 216 208 After five years 125 147 Total operating lease commitments 448 449 Restated for the impact of re-classification of certain alarm-related leases in Europe and other leases in Africa from operating to finance leases see note 3 w. The group leases a number of its office properties, vehicles and other operating equipment under operating leases.
Property leases are negotiated over an average term of around ten years, at rates reflective of market rentals.
Periodic rent reviews take place to bring lease rentals in line with prevailing market conditions.
Some but not all lease agreements have an option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term.
Leased vehicles and other operating equipment are negotiated over an average lease term of four years.
Share based payments In June 2014 a new long-term incentive plan replaced the previous performance share plan the performance share plans, as detailed in the Directors remuneration report on page 74.
Shares allocated conditionally fall under either the groups performance share plans or the groups performance-related bonus scheme.
Shares allocated conditionally under the performance-related bonus scheme vest three years following the date of grant provided certain non-market performance conditions are met.
Those allocated under the groups performance share plans vest after three years, to the extent that certain non-market performance conditions are met.
The proportion of the allocation of awards to these criteria is described in the remuneration report.
Vesting occurs on the third anniversary of the date the shares were allocated conditionally.
The weighted average share price at the date of allocation of shares allocated conditionally during the year was 290.0p 2014: 240.3p and the contractual life of all conditional allocations was three years.
Under the groups performance share plans, the vesting of 30% 2014: 30% of the shares allocated conditionally depends upon Total Shareholder Return a market performance condition over the vesting year measured against a comparator group.
25% of the allocation vests upon the groups Total Shareholder Return equalling median performance amongst the comparator group.
The fair value of the shares allocated subject to this market performance condition has therefore been reduced by 75%.
The income statement is charged with an estimate for the vesting of shares conditionally awarded subject to non-market performance conditions.
168 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 40.
Related party transactions Transactions and balances with joint ventures Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
Details of transactions between the group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties are entered into in the normal course of business.
Transactions with joint ventures included revenue recorded of 48m 2014: 48m.
Amounts due to related parties include nil 2014: 30m to joint ventures.
Amounts due from related parties include 5m 2014: 37m from joint ventures.
No expense has been recognised in the year for bad and doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
The group has a legal interest in a number of joint arrangements, where the economic interest was divested by the Global Solutions Group prior to its acquisition by G4S plc in 2008.
Transactions with these entities during the year comprised: 2015 2014 Services Services sales to sales to m m White Horse Education Partnership Limited 2 2 Integrated Accommodation Services plc 49 48 Fazakerley Prison Services Limited 34 36 Onley Prison Services Limited 15 15 ECD Cookham Wood Limited 3 12 ECD Onley Limited 11 13 Stratus Integrated Services Limited 8 8 UK Court Services Manchester Limited 2 2 East London Lift Company Limited 1 1 Total 125 137 The group had outstanding balances of 10m 2014: 14m with these entities as at 31 December 2015.
Transactions with post-employment benefit schemes Details of transactions with the groups post-employment benefit schemes are provided in note 32.
Unpaid contributions owed to schemes amounted to 0.4m at 31 December 2015 2014: 0.5m.
Transactions with other related parties In the normal course of the groups business the group provides services to and receives services from certain non-controlling interests on an arms length basis.
Remuneration of key management personnel The groups key management personnel are deemed to be the non-executive directors and those individuals, including the executive directors, whose remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Their remuneration is set out below.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors included within key management personnel is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 89.
Events after the balance sheet date No significant post-balance sheet events have affected the group since 31 December 2015.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42.
Significant investments The companies listed below are those which were part of the group at 31 December 2015 and which, in the opinion of the directors, significantly affected the groups results and net assets during the year.
A comprehensive list of all group undertakings is disclosed on pages 171 to 188.
The principal activities of the companies listed below are indicated according to the following key: Secure Solutions S Cash Solutions C These businesses operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Product Country of Ultimate segment incorporation ownership Subsidiary undertakings G4S Soluciones fide Seguridad S. A.
S Argentina 84% G4S Australia Pty Limited S Australia 100% G4S Custodial Services Pty Limited S Australia 100% G4S Secure Solutions AG Austria S Austria 100% G4S Secure Solutions SA NV S Belgium 100% G4S Cash Solutions Belgium NV C Belgium 100% G4S Interativa Service Ltda S Brazil 100% Vanguarda Segurana e Vigilncia Ltda S Brazil 100% G4S Secure Solutions Canada Limited S Canada 100% G4S Security Services Regiones S. A.
S Chile 100% G4S Secure Solutions Colombia S. A.
S C Colombia 100% G4S Security Services A S S Denmark 100% G4S Aviation Services UK Limited S England 100% G4S Care and Justice Services UK Limited S England 100% G4S Cash Centres UK Limited C England 100% G4S Cash Solutions UK Limited C England 100% G4S Facilities Management UK Limited S England 100% G4S Risk Management Limited S England 100% G4S Secure Solutions UK Limited S England 100% G4S Security Services UK Limited S England 100% G4S Utility and Outsourcing Services UK Limited S England 100% AS G4S Baltics S C Estonia 100% G4S Security Services Oy S Finland 100% G4S Kszpnzlogisztikai Kft C Hungary 100% 1, 3 G4S Secure Solutions India Pvt.
Limited S India 49% G4S Secure Solutions Ire Limited S Ireland 100% G4S Secure Solutions Israel Limited S Israel 92% G4S Security Technologies Israel Limited S Israel 100% G4S Kenya Limited S C Kenya 100% G4S Security Solutions S. A. R. L S C Luxembourg 100% 2, 3 Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd S C Malaysia 49% G4S Cash Solutions BV C Netherlands 100% G4S Beheer BV S Netherlands 100% G4S Peru S. A. C. S C Peru 100% 3 Al Majal Service Master LLC S Saudi Arabia 49% G4S Cash Solutions SA Pty Limited C South Africa 75% G4S Secure Solutions SA Pty Limited S South Africa 72% G4S Secure Solutions Thailand Limited S Thailand 100% G4S Secure Solutions USA Inc. S USA 100% G4S Technology Software Solutions LLC S USA 100% G4S Youth Services LLC S USA 100% 1.
Limited has a year end of 31 March.
Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd has a year end of 30 June.
By virtue of shareholder agreements, options, pre-emption rights and other contractual arrangements, the group has the power to govern thefinancial and operating policies, so as to obtain the benefits from the activities of these companies.
These are therefore consolidated as fullsubsidiaries.
170 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc Subsidiaries Entities listed below are subsidiaries at 31 December 2015, by reason of the holding of a majority of the voting rights or, if a majority is not held, by virtue of section 1162 2 c of the Companies Act 2006.
Not all of the companies listed below are trading entities.
Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S ALGERIE EURL Algeria 100.0% Lotissement Benhedadi Said N3 Dar Diaf Cherraka, 16050, Algeria SECURICOR GRAY SECURITY Angola 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, SERVICES ANGOLA PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SERVICOS fide SEGURANCA Angola 65.0% Rua Massango, No.
50 52 Cruzeiro-Ingombota, ANGOLA LIMITADA Luanda, Angola G4S SOLUCIONES fide Argentina 83.6% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina SEGURIDAD S. A. G4S SERVICIOS fide SEGURIDAD S. A. Argentina 75.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina INDOMEGA S. A. Argentina 83.5% Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle fide Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, Argentina MANAR S. A. Argentina 83.5% Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle fide Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, Argentina PROTECCION E INVERSIONES, S. A. Argentina 80.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S SOLUCIONES GLOBALES S. A. Argentina 75.0% Jose Demaria 4470 C1425AEB, Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S APPLIED SECURITY S. A. Argentina 75.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S CONTROL SYSTEMS SA Argentina 78.7% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S DETCON S. A. Argentina 73.0% Bulnes 1569 C1176ACC, Ciudad Autonimas fide Buenos Aires, Argentina ORCANI PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Australia 100.0% c o HLB Mann Judd, Level 19, 207b Kent Street, 2000 AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Sydney, Australia G4S COMPLIANCE & Australia 100.0% P. O.
Box 7332 Level 3, 182-184 Bourke Road, NSW 2015 INVESTIGATIONS PTY LTD Alexandria, Australia G4S AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S HEALTH SERVICES AUSTRALIA Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia PTY LTD G4S CUSTODIAL SERVICES PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia FOGL KNIGHT SECURITY Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia ELECTRONICS PTY.
LTD. G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S NATIONAL COMMAND CENTRE Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S CORRECTIONAL SERVICES Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS AG Austria 100.0% Dresdner Strasse 91 1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria AUSTRIA G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GMBH Austria 100.0% Peilsteinerstr.
5-7, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria G4S DIENSTLEISTUNGS GMBH Austria 100.0% Dresdner Strasse 91 1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria GROUP 4 SECURITAS REP OFFICE Azerbaijan 100.0% 59 4 Neftchilyar Ave, AZ1000 Baku, Azerbaijan G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Bahrain 34.3% Villa 925, Road 3830, Manama, Qudaybiyah 338, P. O.
Box 15193 BAHRAIN W. L. L Adliya, Bahrain G4S REGIONAL CONSULTANCY Bahrain 100.0% 141, 14th Floor, Al Jasrah Tower, Building no.
95, Road 1702, SERVICES NAMESA WLL Area 317, Diplomatice Area Manama G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Bangladesh 100.0% House # KA 79, Joar Sahara, Dhaka, 1212 Dhaka, Bangladesh BANGLADESH P LTD FIRST SELECT BANGLADESH Bangladesh 40.0% Apartment 10 A, Rupsha Tower, 7 Kamal Ataturk Avenue, Banani, LIMITED Dhaka, Bangladesh G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Barbados 51.0% Brighton, Spring Garden, St. Michael, Barbados BARBADOS LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS BELGIUM Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 SA NV Brussels, Belgium G4S SUPPORT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S CARGO SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S TRAINING & CONSULTANCY Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 SERVICES SA NV Brussels, Belgium G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURE MONITORING SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S CARE SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S EVENT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S EVENT SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S FIRE AND SAFETY BV BA Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S BELGIUM NOMINEE NV Belgium 100.0% 100% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SAFETY SYSTEMS N. V. Belgium 100.0% Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium ASC SAFETY SERVICES B. V. B.
A. Belgium 100.0% Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium G4S BOLIVA S. A. Bolivia 99.9% Marcelo terceros Banzer S N, 3er Anillo Ext.
Equipetrol Frente Hotel Casa Blanca, Santa Cruz, Bolivia G4S BOTSWANA LTD Botswana 70.0% Plot 20584, Western Bypass, Gaborone, Botswana FIDELITY CASH MANAGEMENT Botswana 100.0% Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Office Park, Gaborone, Botswana SERVICES BOTSWANA PTY LTD G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Botswana 48.9% Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Office Park, Gaborone, Botswana BOTSWANA PTY LTD G4S BRAZIL HOLDING LTDA Brazil 100.0% Av.
Rio Branco, 1 9 andar, parte, B, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil G4S MONITORAMENTO Brazil 100.0% Rua Sapetuba, 166, 1 andar, Butant, So Paulo, Brazil E SISTEMAS LTDA.
Almirante Barroso, 52, 23 andar, sala 2302, parte, Centro, ADMINISTRAO fide 20031-000, Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil EMPRESAS LTDA.
Brazil 100.0% Sapetuba, 166, parte, 05510-000 So Paulo, Brazil VIGILARME SERVIOS fide VIGILNCIA Brazil 100.0% Avenida Indianapolis, 1.948, Bloco B, Planalto Paulista, ARMADA E DESARMADA LTDA.
Sao Paulo, Brazil G4S ENGENHARIA E SISTEMAS LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Sapetuba, 166, 1 andar, Butant, So Paulo, Brazil G4S INTERATIVA SERVICE LTDA.
Brazil 100.0% Rua Santa Rosa, 911, Bairro Santa Paula, Sao Caetano do Sul, Sao Paulo, Brazil VANGUARDA SEGURANA Brazil 100.0% Rua Conselheiro Ramalho 362, Bela Vista, 01325-000 E VIGILNCIA LTDA So Paulo, Brazil SEI SERVIOS INTEGRADOS LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Amazonas, 416, Sl.
12, Centro, So Caetano do Sul, 09520-060 So Paulo, Brazil EMPRESA NACIONAL fide Brazil 100.0% Rua Maria Jos, 69, Bela Vista, 01324-010 So Paulo, Brazil SEGURANCA LTDA G4S PARTICIPAES LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Mayrink Veiga, 6, sala 301, parte Centro, 20090-050 Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA LTD British Virgin 100.0% CITCO Building, Wickhams City, P. O.
Box 662, Road Town, Islands Tortola, British Virgin Islands G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ASIA LTD British Virgin 100.0% Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Islands Causeway Bay, Hong Kong G4S HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States Islands ARMORGROUP SPECIAL British Virgin 100.0% Craigmuir Chambers, P. O.
Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, CLEARANCE SERVICES LTD Islands British Virgin Islands HILL & ASSOCIATES British Virgin 100.0% Kingston Chambers, P. O.
Box 173, Road Town Tortola, CONSULTANTS LTD Islands British Virgin Islands G4S BVI HOLDCO British Virgin 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States, COLOMBIA II LTD Islands HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS British Virgin 100.0% P. O.
Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, MIDDLE EAST LTD Islands Tortola, British Virgin Islands ASHINO HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States, Islands G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SDN BHD Brunei 55.0% Unit 406A-410A, Wisma Jaya, Jalan Pemancha, BS8811 Bandar Seri Darussalam Begawan, Brunei Darussalam G4S SECURE DATA SOLUTIONS Brunei 38.5% Unit 406A-410A, Wisma Jaya, Jalan Pemancha, BS8811 Bandar Seri SDN BHD Darussalam Begawan, Brunei Darussalam SPHERE SECURE SERVICES SDN BHD Brunei 100.0% No.
12, Simpang 591, Kampung Jerudong, BG3122 Bandar Seri Darussalam Begawan, Brunei Darussalam G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS EOOD Bulgaria 100.0% management at 1, Business Park Sofia, block 3, office 207-208, 1766 Sofia, Mladost Region, Bulgaria G4S SECURITY SERVICES Cameroon 48.7% Old Airport Road, Bonapriso Doula, Cameroon CAMEROON PLC G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CANADA Canada 100.0% 150 Ferrand Drive, Suite 600, M3C 3E5 Toronto, Ontario, Canada LTD. G4S SOLUTIONS fide SECURITE CANADA LTEE INDO BRITISH GARMENTS Canada 100.0% 5255 Orbitor Drive, L4W 5M6 Mississauga Ontario, Canada CANADA LTD SERVICE MASTERS LTD Cayman Islands 100.0% Caledonian House, 69 Dr. Roys Drive, KY1-1102 George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 172 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address LA KING SECURITY SERVICE DU Central African 100.0% Rue Kongo Waga, ONAF 5, Lot 247, Central African Republic GROUPE MCG JV Republic G4S CENTRAFRIQUE SECURITE Central African 100.0% No 48 85, Avenue Kolwezi, Gombe, Kinshasa, DRC SOLUTION SURL Republic SERVICIOS GENERALES S. A. Chile 100.0% Avda.
3761, uoa, Santiago, Chile G4S SECURITY TRAINING CHILE SA Chile 100.0% Avda.
3761, uoa, Santiago, Chile G4S HOLDINGS CHILE S. A. Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile G4S SECURITY SERVICES Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile REGIONES, S. A. G4S SECURITY SERVICES LIMITADA Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile ARRIENDOS FAST CAR, LTDA.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile CAPACITACIN Y Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile DESARROLLO, LTDA.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile SERVICIOS fide INFORMACIN Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile COMUNICACIONES Y TECNOLGICOS S. A. G4S AUSTRAL S. A. Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD. China 100.0% 13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New District, 200122, Shanghai, China SHENZHEN G4S DONAR China 100.0% West Floor 9, Bus Tower 1001, Lianhau branch, Futian District, TECHNOLOGY CO, LTD 518036 Shenzhen, China G4S MING WANG SECURITY China 75.0% Room 801, East 8th Floor, 1st Building, QingDong Business Area, SYSTEMS CO. LTD. No.
1 CheDaoGou, HaiDan District, 100089 Beijing, China G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS BEIJING China 75.0% Room 01-4 Tower A 8F, Yi Cheng International Centre No.
10 Rong CO. LTD Hua Middle Road Beijing Development Area, 100176 Beijing, China G4S TECHNOLOGY CHINA LTD China 100.0% Room 710A, 7 F, Nan Fang Securities Building, 140 -148 Ti Yu Dong Lu, Tian He District, Guangzhou, China GUANGZHOU G4S JD ELECTRONICS China 50.0% Room 101, No.
2-7, Caipin Road, Science City, Guangzhou TECHNOLOGY CO. LTD Development District, 510630 Guangzhou, China HILL & ASSOCIATES PRC LTD China 100.0% 6A, Huamin Empire Plaza, No.
728 Yan An Road W, 200050 Shanghai, China G4S ZHEJIANG SECURE China 65.0% 17-1 Bai Ma Miao Xiang, Shangcheng District, Hangzhou, China SOLUTIONS CO LTD G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS China 100.0% Room 204-7, 2 Floor, China Diamond Exchange Center Building, SHANGHAI CO. LTD Tower B, No.
1701 Century Boulevard, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES China 100.0% 13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New SHANGHAI CO. LTD District, 200122, Shanghai, China G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia COLOMBIA S. A. G4S RISK MANAGEMENT Colombia 94.5% Avenida 26 No.
69A 51 Torre A, Int 1, Piso 2, Bogota, Colombia COLOMBIA S. A. G4S HOLDING COLOMBIA SA Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia G4S TECHNOLOGY COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Colombia 100.0% Avenida fide las Americas No.
S Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia GFOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S VALOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica WACKENHUT SERVICIOS fide Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo SEGURIDAD, S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica WACKENHUT SERVICIO fide Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo ESCOLTAS, S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G FOUR S GRUPO fide SERVICIOS Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo ESPECIALES fide SEGURIDAD, S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G FOUR S CONSULTOR EN Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo SEGURIDAD, S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S LOGISTICA fide Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
VALORES SA Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S CASH SOLUTIONS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica G4S GULF HOLDINGS NV Curacao 100.0% Kaya Flamboyan 6, Curaao, Dutch West Indies, Curacao G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Cyprus 74.0% Diianiras 17, 2045 Strovolos Nicosia, P. O.
Box 23989 1687, CYPRUS LTD Nicosia, Cyprus G4S HOLDING CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 100.0% P. O.
Box 23989, 1687 Nicosia, Cyprus ARMORGROUP MIDDLE EAST Cyprus 100.0% Julia House, 3 Themistocles Dervis street, CY-1066 Nicosia, Cyprus LIMITED GROUP 4 ALARMS SRO Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic XYZ SERVICES SRO Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CZ, A. S. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S CASH SOLUTIONS CZ A. S. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SERVICES S. R. O. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S DRC S. A. R. L. Democratic 95.0% 108, Boulevard du 30 Juin, Gombe, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo G4S HOLDINGS DK A S Denmark 100.0% 100.00% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S INTERNATIONAL DK A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SECURITY SERVICES A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S KYHLENSO A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S VIKINGA SURAMERICANA APS Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SURAMERICANA HOLDING APS Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Dominican 95.0% 28.50% Paseo fide los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Republic Dominican Republic G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Dominican 95.0% Paseo fide los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Republic Dominican Republic G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Ecuador 99.9% Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, Ecuador ECUADOR CIA LTDA.
G4S HOLDING ECUADOR S. A. Ecuador 99.9% Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, Ecuador DEFENCE SYSTEMS ECUADOR Ecuador 99.9% Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, Ecuador DSE CIA LTDA G4S FACILITY MANAGEMENT Ecuador 99.9% Calle La Perla y 5th.
Box 17-11-04791 CIA LTDA Quito, Ecuador CEFOSEG CIA.
Box 17-11-04791 Quito, Ecuador G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Egypt 85.0% 2nd District, 90th Street, Area 6, 5th Settlement, New Cairo, EGYPT LLC Cairo, Egypt INDO BRITISH GARMENTS Egypt 99.0% Head Office: Ismalia Public Free Zone Area, Egypt EGYPT S. A. E. FS INVESTMENTS LLC Egypt 99.0% 7 El Sherka El Porsaidia St. Auba Boula Sq.
Ard El Golf, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt FIRST SELECT EGYPT LLC Egypt 59.4% Flat no.
7, Bur Saeediya Company Street, Alan Babula Square, Heliopolis, Golf Land, Cairo, Egypt G4S LOTUS FACILITIES Egypt 51.0% 3A Nabatat Street, Garden City, Cairo, Egypt MANAGEMENT COMPANY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EL El Salvador 100.0% Av.
Olimpica 3765, San Salvador, El Salvador SALVADOR S. A. fide C. V. AS G4S BALTICS Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia AS G4S GRUPP Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia AS G4S EESTI Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia ALARMTEC AS Estonia 100.0% Tkoja 1, 11313 Tallinn, Estonia AS HISTEENUSED Estonia 100.0% Tarta mnt 80j, 10112 Tallinn, Estonia G4S SECURITY SERVICES OY Finland 100.0% P. O.
Box 2525, Pitajanmaentie 14, 00380, Helsinki, Finland G4S CASH SOLUTIONS OY Finland 100.0% P. O.
Box 2525 Suometsntie 1, 01741 Vantaa, Finland G4S HALYTYS-JA PIIRIVALVONTA OY Finland 100.0% P. O.
Box 2525, Pitajanmaentie 14, 00380, Helsinki, Finland G4S MYYMALATURVALLISUUS OY Finland 100.0% P. O.
Box 2525, Pitajanmaentie 14, 00380, Helsinki, Finland G4S PAIKALLISVARTIOINTI JA Finland 100.0% P. O.
Box 2525, Pitajanmaentie 14, 00380, Helsinki, Finland VASTAANOTTOPALVELUT OY G4S INTERNATIONAL France 100.0% 18 R Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France HOLDINGS FRANCE SAS G4S AVIATION SECURITY France 100.0% 18 Rue Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France FRANCE SAS G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS France 100.0% 88ter avenue du General Leclerc, 92100 FRANCE SAS Boulogne Billancourt, France GUIDANCE SURVEILLANCE France 100.0% 104 Rue damsterdam, 75009 Paris, France ELECTRONIQUE SAS G4S GABON SECURE SOLUTIONS S. A. Gabon 99.9% Quartier Ambowe, BP 4000 Libreville, Gabon G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Gambia 90.0% 9 Booster Street, Fajara, SK Serrekunda, Gambia GAMBIA LTD G4S SECURITY HOLDINGS fide GMBH Germany 100.0% Balansstr.
55, D-81541 Mnchen, Germany G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Germany 100.0% Rathenaustrasse 53, D-63263 Neu-Isenburg, Germany GERMANY GMBH G4S  Germany 100.0% 5.20% Pappelallee 41, D-22089 Hamburg, Germany GMBH G4S SECURITY SERVICES Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana GHANA LTD G4S GHANA LTD Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana GHANA LTD G4S RISK MANAGEMENT Ghana 49.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana AFRICA LTD 174 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S HELLAS HOLDING SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S TELEMATIX SA Greece 39.4% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece WSW SKYKAP SERVICES SA Greece 42.5% 5 klm, Spaton-Loutsas aven.
190 19 Spata, Greece G4S AVIATION AND PORTS Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece SECURE SOLUTIONS SA HELLAS GUARD S. A. Greece 18.0% National Road Palaiokastritsas, 491 00 Kerkiras, Greece UNDER LIQUIDATION G4S RMS LTD Greece 99.9% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece CSI DEFENSE LTD Greece 50.0% 35 Kountouriotou, 555-35 Thessaloniki, Greece G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS AND Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece MONITORING SERVICES GREECE SA G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Grenada 51.0% Maurice Bishop Highway Grand Anse St. Georges, Grenada GRENADA LTD. G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Guam 100.0% 1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam GUAM, INC. G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GUAM INC. Guam 100.0% 1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam WACKENHUT fide GUATEMALA SA Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala WACKENHUT ELECTRONICA SA Guatemala 47.5% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S DOCUMENTA, S. A. Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala FACILITY SERVICES, S. A. Guatemala 28.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, S. A. Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Guernsey 100.0% Homefield Rue fide LEpinel Forest, GY8 0HL, Guernsey GUERNSEY LTD G4S INSURANCE GUERNSEY LTD Guernsey 100.0% 100.00% P. O.
Box 384, 4th Floor, The Albany, South Esplanade, GY1 4NF St. Peter Port, Guernsey G4S SECURITY SERVICES Guinea 75.0% Commune fide Ratoma, Kipe Centre Emetteur, Pres fide la Seg, GUINEA SARL Conakry, Guinea G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS fide Honduras 100.0% Edificio Santa Elena, primer nivel.
La Paz HONDURAS S. A. fide C. V. Tegucigalpa, Honduras G4S HONG KONG HOLDING LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong VERDI LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, HONG KONG LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S GURKHA SERVICES LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong HONG KONG SECURITY LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, SERVICES HONG KONG LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S FACILITY SERVICES Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, HONG KONG LTD. Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, HONG KONG LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong SECURICOR MACAU Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, INVESTMENT LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S GROUP HOLDING CHINA LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong STARPOINT INVESTMENTS LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISITICS Hong Kong 100.0% Unit 02, 7 F, Beautiful Group Tower, 77 Connaught Rd Central, HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, HONG KONG LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong GREAT STEP INVESTMENT LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong VICTORY STEP GROUP LTD Hong Kong 75.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S TECHNOLOGY Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, HONG KONG LTD Kowloon, Hong Kong HILL & ASSOCIATES LTD Hong Kong 100.0% Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong G4S BIZTONSGTECHIKAI ZRT Hungary 100.0% Harrer Pl u.
1033 Budapest, Hungary G4S KSZPNZLOGISZTIKAI KFT Hungary 100.0% Rozsnyai u.
21-25, 1139 Budapest, Hungary G4S BIZTONSGI Hungary 100.0% Polgr u.
8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary SZOLGLTATSOK ZRT G4S HOLDING KFT Hungary 100.0% Polgr u.
8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary G4S CENTRAL MONITORING India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS India 49.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 INDIA PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address INDO-BRITISH GARMENTS P LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S CASH SOLUTIONS INDIA India 100.0% 18.50% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 PVT LTD New Delhi, India G4S FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 INDIA PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India G4S PRODUCTS INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS INDIA India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India MONITRON SECURITY P LTD India 100.0% Shawnawaz Building, Near Kamani, Kale Marg, Bail Bazar, Kurla West, 400070 Mumbai, India G4S CORPORATE SERVICES INDIA India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 PVT.
LTD. New Delhi, India FIRST SELECT P LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S FACILITY SERVICES INDIA India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India G4S IT SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% 99.40% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S METER READING SERVICES India 51.6% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 INDIA PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India PROTEX SECURITY SERVICES India 48.9% Plot No.
14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India AP PVT.
LTD INVESTIGATION AND SECURITY India 46.7% Plot No.
14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD MONITRON SUPPORT India 49.5% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 SERVICES PVT.
LTD New Delhi, India HILL & ASSOCIATES INDIA India 100.0% Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No.
LTD 122002 DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK India 100.0% Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No.
10, DLF Cyber City, CONSULTANCY PVT.
LTD 122002 DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India PT G4S SECURITY SERVICES Indonesia 97.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT G4S CASH SERVICES Indonesia 83.9% Jl.
18, Pondok Pinang, Kebayoran Lama, 12310 Jakarta, Indonesia PT CASINTRANS PERDANA Indonesia 100.0% Menara Jamsostek Fl.
38, Kuningan Barat, Jakarta Selatan, Indonesia PT G4S EURONET INDONESIA Indonesia 53.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT HILL KONSULTAN INDONESIA Indonesia 99.0% Gedung Setiabudi 2 Lt. 3A Suite 3A-01 Jl.
62, 12920 Jakarta, Indonesia PT G4S SECURITY SOLUTION Indonesia 100.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, SERVICES 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT ARGENTA ADHILOKA PRATAMA Indonesia 51.0% Jl.
30, Bendungan Hilir, Tanah Abang, 10210 Jakarta, Indonesia GROUP LTD 4 SECURICOR Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland GLOBAL RISKS LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S SUPPORT SERVICES Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland IRELAND LTD G4S HOLDINGS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, Dublin 12, Ireland G4S CASH SOLUTIONS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, Dublin 12, Ireland G4S MONITORING IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, Dublin 12, Ireland A1 SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES LTD Ireland 100.0% Regency House, Old Kilmainham, 8 Dublin, Ireland G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Ireland 100.0% Unit 5 Calmount Business Park, Ballymount, Dublin 12, Ireland IRE LTD ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S FIRE SYSTEMS IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S FINANCE IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% 100.00% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland GDJS SECURITY LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Isle of Man 100.0% Isle of Man Business Pk, Isle of Man IM2 2SE ISLE OF MAN LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ISRAEL LTD Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel G4S SECURITY CONSULTANCY Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel ISREAL LTD G4S SAFETY SOLUTIONS ISREAL LTD Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES Israel 91.9% 10 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel ISREAL LTD G4S MANPOWER Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel SERVICES ISREAL LTD 176 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS Israel 91.9% 2 Hashiloach, Petach Tikva, Israel HOTELO-ISREAL LTD MOKED EMUN SURVEILLANCE Israel 64.3% Maskit Merkazim Building, 46120 Herzelia, Israel & CONTROL 1995 LTD G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES Israel 91.9% 9 Hatocha st. 88000 Eliat, Israel EILAT-ISRAEL LTD. G4S ISRAEL PPP LTD Israel 100.0% 14 Scacham St. Petach Tikva, Israel POLICITY LTD Israel 46.0% 1a Ha'Yarden St. Air Port City, Lod, Israel G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Israel 100.0% 111, Arlozorov Street, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel, 6209809 ISRAEL LTD WACKENHUT SA Ivory Coast 97.5% 20 B. P. 845 Abidjan 20, Ivory Coast G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CI SA Ivory Coast 98.0% 3 Boulevard Valerie Giscard d'Estaing, 01 BP 6065 ABJ 01 Abidjan, Ivory Coast ARMORGROUP COTE D'IVOIRE SA Ivory Coast 100.0% Rue B31, Lot 29, Cocody danga Nord Abidjan, 20 BP 845 Abidjan 20 Abidjan, Ivory Coast G4S JAMAICA LTD Jamaica 100.0% 6-8 East Avenue, 5 Kingston W. I. Jamaica G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JAPAN K. K Japan 100.0% 202, Musashino Hills, 2299-4 Fussa, Fussa-shi, 1970011 Fussa-shi, Japan HILL & ASSOCIATES JAPAN KK Japan 100.0% 2-2-15, #403, Minami-Aoyama, Minato-ku, 107-0062 Tokyo, Japan G4S HOLDINGS INDIA LTD Jersey 100.0% Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, JE2 3QA St Helier, Jersey G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Jersey 100.0% The Security Centre Rue des Pres Trading Estate, JE2 7QP St JERSEY LTD Saviour, Jersey G4S INTERNATIONAL Jersey 100.0% The Old Chapel, Sacre Coeur, Rouge Bouillon St Helier, Jersey, EMPLOYMENT SERVICES LTD JE2 3ZA LUCAS CAPITAL JERSEY LTD Jersey 100.0% 100.00% Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Jordan 50.0% # 12, Mithqual El Fayez St. Third Circle, Jebel, P. O.
Box 831358, INTERNATIONAL INC JORDAN LTD. 11183 Amman, Jordan INTERNATIONAL BRITISH Jordan 100.0% P. O.
#13136, Al Zarqa, Jordan GARMENTS LLC G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INT.
Jordan 60.0% Roxy Al Ozaizi Street Dana Center 2, 11183 Amman, Jordan JORDAN FOR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FALCON CONSULT LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% Block B-VIP, 155 Tazhibayeva Street, 050060 Almaty, Kazakhstan  LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% 68 74 Abay Street ave. Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan KAZSECUR LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% 68 74 Abay Street ave. Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan GROUP 4 SECURICOR Kazakhstan 60.0% 68 74 Abay Street ave. Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan KAZAKHSTAN LLP KE 1 LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% Block B-VIP, 155 Tazhibayeva Street, 050060 Almaty, Kazakhstan GROUP 4 CASH SERVICES LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% Block B-VIP, 155 Tazhibayeva Street, 050060 Almaty, Kazakhstan VERNAL LTD. LLP Kazakhstan 60.0% 68 74 Abay Street ave. Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan G4S SPECIALISED Kazakhstan 100.0% 68 74 Abay Street ave. Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan TRAINING CENTRE LLP G4S KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya G4S FIRE SERVICES KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya ARMORGROUP KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Plot No.
LR 209 368 10, Armor House, Lenana Road, P. O.
Box 2714 Nairobi, Kenya G4S SECURE DATA SOLUTIONS Kenya 60.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 KENYA LTD Nairobi, Kenya AS G4S LATVIA Latvia 100.0% Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia AS G4S CASH SERVICES LATVIA Latvia 100.0% Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia GROUP 4 SECURITY SERVICES Lebanon 50.6% 50.60% Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon LEBANON SAL G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS Lebanon 50.7% Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon LEBANON SAL G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LESOTHO Lesotho 100.0% Christie House, Orpen Road, Maseru, Lesotho PTY LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS LESOTHO Lesotho 100.0% 397 Hilton Hill Road, Maseru, Lesotho PTY LTD UAB G4S LIETUVA Lithuania 100.0% J. Jasinskio 16C, LT-01112 Vilnius, Lithuania G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS S. A. R. L. Luxembourg 100.0% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513, L-1015 Luxembourg G4S GENERAL SERVICES SA Luxembourg 100.0% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513 G4S FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SARL Luxembourg 100.0% 100.00% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513 G4S MACAU HOLDING LTD Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 185-191, 1 Andar A, Macau G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck MACAU LTD Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau GREAT WALL SECURITY Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau GREAT WALL PROPERTY Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck MANAGEMENT SERVICES LTD Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau GREAT WALL HOLDINGS LTD Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S MADAGASCAR SOLUTIONS Madagascar 100.0% Lot II, 161 HC Ambohijatovo Ivandry Immeuble Millenium, 10101 fide SECURITE SARL 101 Antananarivo Renivohitra C. U. Madagascar G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Malawi 99.7% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi MALAWI LTD G4S PREMIER GUARDING SERVICES Malawi 100.0% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi MALAWI LTD G4S PREMIER ALARM MONITORING Malawi 100.0% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi AND RESPONSE SERVICES MALAWI LTD G4S MALAYSIA SDN.
Malaysia 60.0% 25-2, Jalan PjU 1 42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia ALMO SYSTEMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% 25-2, Jalan PjU 1 42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia GROUP 4 FALCK CMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% Suite 226, 1st floor, FAS Business Avenue, No.
1, Jalan Perbandaran, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SECURICOR MALAYSIA SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SABAH Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, SDN BHD 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SARAWAK Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, SDN BHD 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SECURITY Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, SYSTEMS SDN BHD 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia GWENKENS SECURITY Malaysia 45.9% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, SERVICES SDN BHD Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES Malaysia 100.0% 1st Floor, Lot 6, Jalan 225, Sec 51A, Petaling Jaya, 46100 ASIA PACIFIC SDN BHD Selangor, Malaysia HILL CORPORATE SERVICES Malaysia 100.0% 2nd floor, No 2-4 Jalan Manau, 50460 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SDN BHD RISK CONSULTING L LTD Malaysia 100.0% Level 15B, Main Office Tower, Financial Park, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Labuan, Malaysia HILL RISK CONSULTING MALAYSIA Malaysia 100.0% Unit No 9-7, The Boulevard, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, SDN BHD 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia VIVA POWERTECH SDN.
Malaysia 100.0% Level 21, Suite 21.10, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S ACADEMY Malaysia 45.9% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, SDN BHD Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia GWENKENS CENTRAL Malaysia 45.9% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16 11, Off MONITORING SDN BHD Jalan Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia INDO BRITISH GARMENTS Malaysia 100.0% Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing No 1 Leboh MALAYSIA SDN BHD Ampang, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia G4S MALI SARL Mali 100.0% Hamdallaye ACI 2000, street 405 gate 558, Bamako, Mali G4S SECURITY SERVICES Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 MALTA LTD San Gwann, Malta G4S SECURITY SERVICES LTD Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S HOLDINGS MALTA LTD Malta 100.0% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 MALTA LTD San Gwann, Malta THE GUARD AND WARDEN Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 SERVICE HOUSE LTD San Gwann, Malta G4S SECURITY SERVICES Mauritania 70.0% BP 4201, Nouakchott, Tevragh Zeina Ilot C, No.
261, MAURITANIA SA Nouakchott, Mauritania G4S HOLDINGS CHINA LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius CROSSKEYS MAURITIUS Mauritius 100.0% 210 St James Court, Rue St Denis, Port Louis, Mauritius HOLDINGS LTD HILL RISK MANAGEMENT LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius HILL & ASSOCIATES MAURITIUS LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius HILL RISK CONSULTING Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, MAURITIUS LTD Port Louis, Mauritius S GRAY MANAGEMENT Mauritius 100.0% c o Intercontinental Trust LTD, Level 3, Alexander House, 35 SERVICES LTD Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius G4S HOLDINGS MXICO, SA fide CV Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico G4S PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES, Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico SA fide CV G4S SECURITY SERVICES CRNA Montenegro 85.0% Cvijetna Street no.
25, Podgorica, Montenegro GORA DOO PODGORICA 178 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address WACKENHUT MOROCCO INC Morocco 93.8% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 BRANCH OFFICE Casablanca, Morocco MAROC PROTECTION Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 SURVEILLANCE SA Casablanca, Morocco G4S MAROC SA Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco FIRST SELECT MOROCCO SA Morocco 99.9% 24, Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Marouf, Casablanca, Morocco G4S INTERGRATED SERVICES Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 MOROCCO SA Casablanca, Morocco G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Mozambique 87.5% Av Kim ii sung, 853, Maputo, Mozambique MOCAMBIQUE LIMITADA G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT Mozambique 90.0% No 2085, Avenida Ahmed Sekoe Toure, Maputo, Mozambique MOCAMBIQUE, LIMITADA G FOUR S MANNED SECURITY Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia NAMIBIA PTY LTD G FOUR S AVIATION SECURITY Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat, Muhammed Street, Eros, NAMIBIA PTY LTD Windhoek, Namibia G FOUR S SECURE SOLUTIONS Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia NAMIBIA PTY LTD ARMED RESPONSE COMPANY Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PROPRIETARY LTD RESCUE 911 PROPRIETARY LTD Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PRO-FORCE CORPORATE SECURITY Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PROPRIETARY LTD G FOUR S CASH SOLUTIONS Namibia 100.0% 33 Omuramba Road, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia NAMIBIA PTY LTD G4S SECURITY SERVICES Nepal 99.9% House No.
2, NEPAL P LTD Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal FIRST SELECT NEPAL P LTD Nepal 100.0% P. O.
Box 20423, House # 75 45, Lazimpat, Kailash Chaur, Kathmandu, Nepal SECURITAS PRODUCT Nepal 100.0% House No.
2, NEPAL P. LTD Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal G4S FACILITY & EMPLOYMENT Nepal 100.0% House No.
LTD Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal G4S FACILITY & EMPLOYMENT Nepal 100.0% House No.
LTD Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal G4S INTERNATIONAL NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S HOLDING B BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S INDIA HOLDINGS NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S AVIATION SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0% Havenmeesterweg 317, 1118 CE Luchthaven Schiphol, Netherlands G4S SECURE MONITORING BV Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411 PV Bodegraven, Netherlands G4S CPH BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands 101 NL BV G4S SECURITY SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S HOLDINGS 102 NL B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S HOLDINGS 103 NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S BEHEER BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0% Paasheuvelweg 31, 1105 BG Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S PUBLIC SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S CASH SOLUTIONS B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands G4S CASH MANAGEMENT B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands G4S STAMFORD INVESTMENTS BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S TRAINING & SAFETY BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands G4S CUSTOM TRAINING BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands ROTUS BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands IBG EUROPE BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S PERSONNEL BV Netherlands 100.0% Amperestraat 25, 6716 BN Ede, Netherlands G4S ZORG & WELZIJN B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411 PV Bodegraven, Netherlands G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S FIRE & SAFETY B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Donk 1D, 2991 LE Barendrecht, Netherlands G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 5s, 1101 CA Amsterdam, Netherlands EUROPE BV INZETBAAR B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands.
G4S NEW ZEALAND LTD New Zealand 100.0% Level3, 2 Kalmia Street, Ellerslie, 1051, New Zealand G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, SOCIEDAD Nicaragua 51.0% Reparta Belmonte, Dr. Hospital Velez Paiz, 1 Cuadra Holis ANNIMA Arriba, Nicaragua OUTSOURCING SERVICES LTD Nigeria 99.9% Fith Floor, Octagon Towers, A-J Morinho Drive, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address SCHC LTD Nigeria 99.0% 1, Murtala Muhammed Drive, Ikoyi, Lagos G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Nigeria 100.0% Mi-Bannk Office Complex, Km 14, Lekki-Epe, Expressway, NIGERIA LTD Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria G4S TRACKING SOLUTIONS LTD Nigeria 60.0% AIB Plaza, Off Akin Adesola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria ASSETGUARD SERVICES LTD Nigeria 100.0% 1 Murtala Mohammed Drive Formerly Bank ROad, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria ARMORGROUP NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% 22 Raymond Nyoku Street, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria DEFENCE SYSTEMS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% First Floor Right, Ablag House, 7 Anthony Village Road, Anthony Village, Lagos, Nigeria G4S GLOBAL RISKS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% Plot 7a Acme Road, Block C, Ogba Inustrial Scheme, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Northern 100.0% PMB 384 PPP Box 1000, 96950 Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands CNMI INC. Mariana Islands G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS LLC Oman 49.0% P. O.
Box 1625, 112, Ruwi Muscat, Oman G4S SERVICES LLC Oman 49.0% P. O.
Box 1625, 112 Muscat, Oman HILL & ASSOCIATES PAKISTAN Pakistan 100.0% B-61, KDA Scheme 01, 7550 Karachi, Pakistan PVT.
LTD FIRST SELECT PAKISTAN PVT LTD Pakistan 51.0% H. No.
8, F-7 3, Islamabad, Pakistan INVERSIONES SETESCA Panama 100.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama SEGURIDAD TECNICA SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama TELEMETRIA Y ALARMA SA Panama 17.6% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama DETECTA SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama LIMPIE SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama G4S S. A. Panama 100.0% Marbella, Ave. Aquilino fide la Guardia Ocean Business Plaza, Piso 17-1704, Panama City, Panama METERS CORP. Panama 100.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS PNG LTD Papua New 100.0% Section 61, Allotment 13, Morata Street, Gordons, Guinea National Capital District, Papua New Guinea MONT BLANC LIMITED Papua New 100.0% C Sinton Spence Chartered Accountants 2nd Floor Brian Bell Guinea Plaza Turmu St. Boroko, Boroko, Papua New Guinea WACKENHUT PARAGUAY SA Paraguay 80.0% Nery Quevedo 315 Esq.
Hipolito Garron, Asuncion, Paraguay G4S PERU SAC Peru 99.9% Av.
El Sol 916, Urbanizacin La Campia.
Chorrillos, Lima, Peru G4S L&T PERU S. A.
El Sol N 906, Distrito fide Chorrillos, Provincia Y Departmento fide Lima, Peru G4S HOLDING, INC. Philippines 70.3% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC. Philippines 70.2% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines PERSONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS INC. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines CATENA SECURITY INC. Philippines 93.7% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines VALLUM SECURITY SERVICES CORP. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURITY TRAINING INC. Philippines 28.1% Metro Manila, Philippines C O Unit 201 Conservatory Bldg, 605 Shaw Blvd.
Mandaluyong City, Philippines ATTINA SECURITY SERVICES, INC. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines HILL & ASSOCIATE RISK Philippines 1000% Unit 505, Pse Tower One & Exchange Plaza, 6767 Ayala Avenue, CONSULTING PHILS.
INC. 1226 Makati City, Philippines ACCURIA EXECUTIVE PROTECTION Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, & DETECTIVE SERVICES INC. 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Philippines 46.2% 100 E. Rodriquez Avenue, Ugong Norte, 1552 PHILLIPINES INC. Quezon City, Philippines GLOBAL SECURITY SOLUTIONS INC. Philippines 50.0% Unit 201 Conservatory Building, 1552 Mandaluyong City, Philippines CYNEWARD SECURITY CORP. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Puerto Rico 100.0% Carretera #1 Plaza Bairoa, Suite 211, Caguas, Puerto Rico PUERTO RICO INC. G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Sqaure, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Sqaure, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania G4S FIRE & SAFETY S. R. L. Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Sqaure, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Russia 100.0% UKhtomski Pereulok, 4, 111020 Moscow, Russia PRIVATE SECURITY ENTITY GROUP 4 SECURITAS RENAMED LLC PSE GSN G4S SECURITY SERVICES Russia 95.0% 8 Rizhky Prospekt, 190103 St. Petersburg, Russia SAINT.
PETERSBURG LLC CJSC PSE G4S SECURITY Russia 75.0% 36 Dzerzhinskogo, 693000 Yuzhno Sakhalinsk, Russia SERVICES SAKHALIN 180 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address LLC G4S TECNICAL SOLUTIONS Russia 75.0% 62A Amurskaya Str, Office 103, 693000 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia SAKHALIN GROUP 4 FALCK LLC Russia 100.0% Build.
1, 9 Malaya Semenovskaya Street, 107023 Moscow, Russia LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Russia 100.0% 8 3 Grokholsky side-street, Building 1, 129010 Moscow, Russia WACKENHUT SERVICES LLC G4S CENTRE Russia 100.0% UKhtomski Pereulok, 4, 111020 Moscow, Russia LLC G4S INTERGRATED SYSTEMS Russia 100.0% Building 1, 4 Ukhtomsky Pereulok, Moscow 111020, Russia LLC ARMORGROUP HUMANITARIAN Russia 100.0% Office 225, 32, Kommunistichesky Prospekt, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, OPERATIONS 693000, Russia LLC PSE G4S NORTH Russia 100.0% Office 1H, 96 Voronezhskaya Str, 192007, St Petersburg, Russia LLC PSE G4S VOSTOK Russia 100.0% Office 225, 32, Kommunistichesky Prospekt, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, 693000, Russia LLC PSE ARMORGROUP YUG Russia 100.0% 138 Kirova Str, 360002, Krasnodar, Russia G4S EURASIA LLC Russia 100.0% Building 1, 4 Ukhtomsky Pereulok, 111020 Moscow, Russia PRIVATE DETECTIVE ENTITY G4S Russia 100.0% Pistsovaya Street12, Building 1, 127015 Moscow, Russia INVESTIGATIONS LLC LLC PRIVATE DETECTIVE ENTITY Russia 100.0% Office 225, 32, Kommunistichesky Prospekt, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, ARMORGROUP INVESTIGATIONS 693000, Russia ARMORGROUP KHABAROVSK Russia 100.0% Office B2-6, 210 Prospekt 60, 680009, Let Oktyabrya, LLC PSC Khabarovsk, Russia G4S RWANDA LTD Rwanda 99.0% 5698 Nyarutarama, P. O.
Box 7230, Kigali, Rwanda G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Saint Lucia 51.0% P. O.
Box CP 6098 Conway Post Office, Castries, Saint Lucia ST. LUCIA LTD AL MAJAL GROUP 4S FOR SECURITY Saudi Arabia 49.0% P. O.
Box 31049, 21497 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia AND SAFETY LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AL MAJAL SERVICE MASTER LLC Saudi Arabia 49.0% Post Code 6930, 21452 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia MOHAMMED BIN ABDOUD AL Saudi Arabia 0.0% P. O.
Box 2779, 21461 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia AMOUDI CO FOR CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICES PARTNERSHIP ALMAJAL G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS D. O. O. Serbia 85.0% Kumodraska Street no 240, Belgrade, Serbia G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SL LTD Sierra Leone 100.0% 117 Jomo Kenyatta Road, P. O.
Box 816, Freetown, Sierra Leone GROUP 4 SECURICOR S PTE.
LTD. Singapore 100.0% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S PTE.
LTD. Singapore 100.0% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Singapore 100.0% 25.30% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore SINGAPORE PTE.
LTD. G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Singapore 100.0% 158 Cecil Street, 069 545 #11-01 Singapore, SINGAPORE PTE LIMITED HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK Singapore 100.0% 51 Cuppage Road, #10-18, 229469, Singapore CONSULTING SINGAPORE PTE LTD G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SK S. R. O. Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SK, A. S. Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S FIRE SERVICES SK, S. R. O Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic SK, S. R. O G4S DRUZBA ZA VAROVANJE D. O. O. Slovenia 96.2% Stegne 21, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia G4S D. O. O.
GROUP 4 FALCK PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURITY SERVICES AFRICA South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PROPRIETARY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S INTEGRITY ASSESSMENT South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa, G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS South Africa 100.0% Unit 31, First Floor Waterford Office Park, Corner Witkoppen SOUTH AFRICA PTY.
& Waterford Road, Fourways 1610, South Africa GRAY SECURITY SERVICES SA South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PROPRIETARY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S INSURANCE SA LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa ELWIERDA GAUTENG PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa CMS MICRO FINANCE PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S EMPOWERMENT VENTURES South Africa 48.4% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, SA PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, SOUTH AFRICA PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S CORRECTION SERVICES South Africa 81.0% G4S Gables Building, 1209 Francis Baard Street, Hatfield, 0083 BLOEMFONTEIN PTY LTD Pretoria, South Africa GSL REBOUND PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa SKYCOM PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa ACCESS AND BEYOND PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa INTEGRATED SKY FORCE South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, SOLUTIONS PTY LTD Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa, 0157 Centurion INDO BRITISH GARMENTS PVT.
South Africa 100.0% SORENTO SUITE, 5 fide HAVILAND CRESCENT, ILL VILLAGGIO LIMITED, EXTERNAL PROFIT PERSEQUOR Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa INVESTMENT SURVEYS PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S DEPOSITA RF PTY LTD South Africa 68.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S ATM ENGINEERING SA South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa INTEGRA PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa THETHA TECHNOLOGIES PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S AFRICA PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS South Korea 100.0% 13th Floor ILJIN Building, 50-1 Dohwa-dong, KOREA LTD 121-716 Mapo-gu Seoul, South Korea G4S SECURITY SERVICES Sri Lanka 60.0% 21 Vauxhall Street, 2 Colombo, Sri Lanka PRIVATE LTD. ARMORGROUP SUDANESE CO LTD Sudan 100.0% 8 Mek Nimer Street, P. O.
Box 47, Khartoum, Sudan ARMORGROUP LIMITED SUDAN Sudan 100.0% In process of confirming whether exists GROUP 4 SYRIA LIMITED Syria 29.4% Al-Aasar Building, near the Central Post office, Sinjikdar, LIABILITY COMPANY Damascus, Syria G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, TAIWAN LTD 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S ATM SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-2, No.
266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, Taiwan, G4S PROPERTY MANAGEMENT LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S SECUREWELL SECURE Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S WEI FUNG SECURE SOLUTIONS Taiwan 100.0% 20F-2, No.
266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, TAIWAN LTD 24448 Taipei City, Taiwan G4S SYSTEM ENGINEERING Taiwan 85.0% 6F.
Taipei City 11493, CORPORATION Taiwan R. O.
C, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan HILL & ASSOCIATES TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS CO. LTD Taiwan 85.0% 16th Floor, Suite 1, No.
1, Wen-Hwa 2nd Road, Linko Hsiang, Taipei, Taiwan, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TZ LTD Tanzania 100.0% Plot no.
57, Uporoto Street, Ursino Estate, P. O.
Box 5555, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania ARMORGROUP TANZANIA LTD Tanzania 100.0% TDFL, 3rd Floor Opposite Sheraton Hotel, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania G4S THAILAND LTD Thailand 99.5% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Thailand 99.5% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi THAILAND LTD Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS THAILAND LTD Thailand 99.9% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, 10210 Bangkok, Thailand G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Thailand 49% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, THAILAND LTD 10210 Bangkok, Thailand INTER-ASIAN ENTERPRISES IAE Thailand 99.9% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, COMPANY LTD 10210 Bangkok, Thailand G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Thailand 48.9% 45 1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, HOLDING THAILAND LTD Silom, 10500 Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Thailand 73.9% 45 1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, THAILAND LTD Silom, 10500 Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand ASIAN HOLDING INTERNATIONAL Thailand 97.8% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, COMPANY LTD 10210 Bangkok, Thailand GUARDIAN ALARMS COMPANY LTD. Thailand 99.7% 43 55 Moo 5, Wiset Rd.
Rawai Sub District, Muang District, Phuket Province, Thailand HILL RISK CONSULTING Thailand 49.0% 139 Sethiwan Tower, 6th Floor, Room C, Pan Road, Silom, THAILAND LTD Bangrak, 10500 Bangkok, Thailand 182 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S HOLDINGS 4 THAILAND Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 3 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 2 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 1 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S TRINIDAD LTD Trinidad & 100.0% 19 Picton Street, Newtown, Port of Spain Tobago G4S HOLDINGS TRINIDAD LTD Trinidad & 51.0% Trinidad & Tobago, 61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain Tobago G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Trinidad & 51.0% 61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain TRINIDAD LTD Tobago Turkey 100.0% Ayazaga Mah.
Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, G4S GVENLK HZMETLER Istanbul, Turkey ANONM RKET Turkey 100.0% Ayazaga Mah.
Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, G4S ELEKTRONK SSTEMLER Istanbul, Turkey ANONM RKET G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Uganda 99.9% Plot 6, Nakasero Road, Kampala, Uganda UGANDA LTD ALARM PROTECTION SERVICES LTD Uganda 100.0% Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC Uganda 100.0% Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda UGANDA GROUP 4 SECURITAS LLC Ukraine 99.4% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Ukraine 100.0% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine UKRAINE LTD G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS Ukraine 100.0% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine UKRAINE LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LLC United Arab 49.0% Chain Tower Oriental Travel Building, First Floor, Muroor Street, Emirates P. O.
Box 31859 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates GROUP 4 FALCK SERVICES LLC United Arab 49.0% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Emirates G4S CASH SERVICES LLC United Arab 49.0% P. O.
Box 113400, Rsahidiya Dubai, United Arab Emirates Emirates GROUP 4 SECURICOR United Arab 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Emirates UAE LLC G4S GROUP 4 SECURICOR FACILITY United Arab 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates SERVICES LLC G4S Emirates SHAMS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES United Arab 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates L. L. C G4S Emirates FIRST SELECT UAE LLC United Arab 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Emirates G4S ALARM MONITORING United Arab 24.5% P. O.
Box 31859, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates SERVICES LLC Emirates FIRST SELECT INTERNATIONAL LLC United Arab 48.5% 65610, 65610 Dubai Emirates G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS United Arab 100.0% Unit 1-05, Street W B 4, Airport Free Zone, 54907, UAE, MIDDLE EAST FZE Emirates United Arab Emirates G4S EVENTS SERVICES UAE LLC United Arab 48.5% Dubai, 215634, United Arab Emirates Emirates FALCON TRAVEL LLC United Arab 49.0% Khanim Abdullah Salem Almazroui Bldg.
6, Behind Al Muhairi Center, Darathul Mia, Khalidiya, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates G4S INTERNATIONAL MARITIME United Arab 100.0% Units # 3007 & 3008, Liwa Heights, Plot # W3 Jumeirah Lakes SOLUTIONS JLT Emirates Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS United Arab 100.0% Unit No.
Al Mas 2 D14, Al Mas Tower, Plot No.
LT2, MIDDLE EAST DMCC Emirates Jumeirah Lake Tower Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S UK HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 3 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom AMAG TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom G4S SECURITY SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom GROUP 4 LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 084 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 99.80% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 38 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S HOLDINGS 102 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SECURICOR LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GROUP HOLDINGS 104 United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, UK LTD United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL 105 United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, UK LTD United Kingdom G4S AMERICAS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S AVIATION SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, UK LTD United Kingdom G4S AVIATION FRANCE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS United Kingdom 100.0% 11th Floor, Princess House, Thames Tower, 1 Suffolk Lane, EC4R UK LTD 0AX London, United Kingdom G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CASH SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CASH CENTRES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, UK LTD United Kingdom G4S SPV HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MP UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, 127 UK LTD United Kingdom G4S NOMINEES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom G4S GOVERNMENT SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S TRUSTEES LTD United Kingdom Limited by Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom guarantee G4S MANROYAL INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FINANCE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.00% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom FIRST SELECT HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S EM INTERNATIONAL LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S POLICING SOLUTIONS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GURKHA SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S US HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MARCH 2008 LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS EURASIA LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, INTERNATIONAL LTD United Kingdom G4S DSL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS INTERNATIONAL United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, AG LTD United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS UK AG LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FINANCE MANAGEMENT United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, AG LTD United Kingdom G4S RISK MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom IRAQ LTD G4S RISK CONSULTING LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S US INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 308 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom pension trust not part of the consolidation 184 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S 309 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 182 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom UK & I LTD G4S HOLDINGS 305 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MEDICAL SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom UK LTD G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GOVERNMENT AND United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom OUTSOURCING SERVICES UK LTD G4S PRISON AND COURT United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SERVICES UK LTD GSL LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S UTILITY AND OUTSOURCING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SERVICES UK LTD STRATUS INTEGRATED SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom ACCUREAD LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FORENSIC AND MEDICAL United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SERVICES UK LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS EMPLOYEES' United Kingdom Limited by Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, CRIMINAL ATTACK FUND LTD United Kingdom guarantee SECURA MONDE United Kingdom 100.0% 6 Kingsbrook House, Kingsclere Park, Kingsclere, RG20 4SW INTERNATIONAL LTD Newbury, Berkshire, United Kingdom SHIREMOOR INTERNATIONAL United Kingdom 100.0% 6 Kingsbrook House, Kingsclere Park, Kingsclere, RG20 4SW ENGINEERING LTD Newbury, Berkshire, United Kingdom G4S ASSESSMENT SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S CASH SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, CAMBRIDGE LTD United Kingdom G4S ORDNANCE United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom IBG HOLDINGS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL FINANCE PLC United Kingdom 100.0% 100.00% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S CORPORATE SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.00% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INVESTIGATION United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, TECHNOLOGIES NO.
1 LTD United Kingdom G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, TECHNOLOGIES NO.
2 LTD United Kingdom G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, TECHNOLOGIES FRANCE LTD United Kingdom G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, TECHNOLOGIES LTD United Kingdom G4S FINANCE BRAZIL LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.00% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INVESTMENT LONDON United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, SUB LTD United Kingdom G4S INVESTMENT LONDON LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.00% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTEGRATED SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom G4S BULLION SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Park Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, United Kingdom G4S FIRE AND SECURITY United Kingdom 100.0% Site 16 Sydenham Buisness Park Airport Road West, BT3 9LN SYSTEMS LTD BELFAST, United Kingdom G4S PATIENT TRANSPORT UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom PROPERTY VENEZUELA LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S LOCKS & ALARMS UK LIMITED United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S FINANCING LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom GLOBAL SOLUTIONS United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, AL WATHBA LTD United Kingdom G4S HOLDING ONE INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS USA INC. United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States INTERNATIONAL INC. AMAG TECHNOLOGY INC United States 100.0% 20701 Manhattan Place, CA 90501-1829 Torrance, United States Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address TITANIA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA United States 100.0% 156 College Street, 3 rd Floor, 05401 VT, IS, United States TWC FL 01 INC United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States TUHNECKCAW INC United States 100.0% 900 Market Street, Suite 200, DA 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, United States AMERICAN GUARD & ALERT INC United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States WACKENHUT U. S. PROPERTIES INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States WACKENHUT FOREIGN United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States PROPERTIES INC G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS United States 100.0% JFK Cargo Center 75, International Airport, Hangar Road, Suite USA, INC. 210, 11430 Jamaica, New York, United States G4S YOUTH SERVICES LLC United States 100.0% 2000 Riveredge Parkway, Suite GL 100, GA 30328 Atlanta, Georgia, United States VEBA TRUST United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States WACKENHUT HOMELAND United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, SECURITY, INC. Florida, United States SERVICE AND SUPPLY United States 100.0% 701 Brazos, Suite 1050, 78701 Austin, Texas, United States INTERNATIONAL, INC. G4S COMPLIANCE & United States 100.0% 910 Paverstone Drive, 27615 Raleigh, NC, United States INVESTIGATIONS, INC. G4S TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS United States 100.0% 21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States USA INC. G4S TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE United States 100.0% 21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States SOLUTIONS LLC US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide, United States RONCO CONSULTING United States 100.0% 1209 Orange Street, fide 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, CORPORATION United States G4S US INC. United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States G4S SECURE INTEGRATION LLC United States 100.0% 1200 Landmark Center, Ste 1300, 68102 Omaha, NE, United States G4S GUATEMALA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S ELECTRONICA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S GUATEMALA FACILITY SERVICES, United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States LLC G4S RETAIL SOLUTIONS USA INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States RENAISSANCE CENTER United States 90.9% 601 Abbot Rd.
48823 Lansing, United States MANAGEMENT COMPANY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Uruguay 80.0% Cufre 2320, Montevideo, Uruguay URUGUAY S. A. SETECSA fide VENEZUELA CA Venezuela 30.0% Los Ruices Sur, Calle Milan 1013, Caracas, Venezuela, Venezuela GROUP 4 FALCK SISTEMAS fide Venezuela 87.8% Avenida Diego Cisneros, Principal fide Los Ruices, Los Ruices, ALARMAS Y SEGURIDAD CA Caracas, Venezuela ARMORGROUP INVERSIONES Venezuela 100.0% Quinta Guayana, Planta Alta, Avenida Orinoco, VENEZUELA SA Las Mercedez, Venezuela ARMORGROUP VENEZUELA SA Venezuela 100.0% Avenida Orinoco, Centro Empresarial Rocco, Piso 3, Las Mercedes, Caracas, Venezuela VULCANO INTEGRATED ALARM Venezuela 100.0% Avenida Orinoco, Centro Empresarial Rocco, Piso 3, SYSTEMS SA Las Mercedes, Caracas, Venezuela ARMORGROUP INTEGRACION SA Venezuela 100.0% Quinta Guayana, Planta Alta, Avenida Orinoco, Las Mercedez, Venezuela GLOBAL GUARDS C. A. Venezuela 97.6% Calle Mucuchies con Califonia, Edificio Jimmy Piso 1, Oficina 5, Caracas, Venezuela GROUP 4S SECURITY SERVICES Yemen 25.0% Off 50 Meter Road, Hadda, 11805 Sana'a, Yemen YEMEN LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Zambia 100.0% P. O.
Box 32914, 10 H Kabulonga Road, Lusaka, Zambia ZAMBIA LTD SAFETECH COPPERBELT LTD Zambia 100.0% Plot 3144, Mukwa Road, Lusaka, Zambia SAFETECH ZAMBIA LTD Zambia 100.0% Plot 7305, Kambala Road, Lusaka, Zambia 186 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Holdings in other undertakings For the entities listed below, the economic interest has been divested and such entities are not therefore included in the groups consolidated accounts.
% ordinary shares owned Company Name Registered Address by group G4S INVESTMENTS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom G4S JOINT VENTURES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom ACCOMMODATION SERVICES HOLDINGS LTD 83 salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, 8.39 WV3 0SR, United Kingdom INTEGRATED ACCOMODATION SERVICES PLC 83 salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, 8.39 WV3 0SR, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT COMPANY LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT INVESTMENTS LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 8.39 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO2 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES NO2 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO4 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO3 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom ELLAS NO3 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom ELLAS NO4 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 5.03 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom ECD COOKHAM WOOD LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom ECD ONLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE THREE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom G4S JOINT VENTURES FAZAKERLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom FAZARKERLY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom G4S JOINT VENTURES ONLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom ONLEY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom OCHRE SOLUTIONS HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 3.36 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom OCHRE SOLUTIONS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 3.36 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom NORTH WILTSHIRE SCHOOLS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom UK COURT SERVICES MANCHESTER HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom UK COURT SERVICES MANCHESTER LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom WHITE HORSE EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom HULL MATERNITY DEVEOPMENT LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 16.78 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom ALBION HEALTHCARE OXFORD HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 4.19 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom ALBION HEALTHCARE OXFORD LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, 4.19 BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom LIFT HEALTHCARE INVESTMENTS LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 2.85 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BEXLEY BROMLEY & GREENWICH LIFT COMPANY LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BBG HOLDCO LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BBG HOLDCO NO 2 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES NO 2 LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Holdings in other undertakings continued % ordinary shares owned Company Name Registered Address by group BHH LIFT COMPANY LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BHH HOLDCO LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom BHH LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom HEALTHCARE IMPROVEMENT PARTNERSHIP Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 WOVERHAMPTOM CITY AND WALSALL LTD OX17 3NS, United Kingdom WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL LIFT Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD OX17 3NS, United Kingdom WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom WALSALL LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 1.71 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom LONDON LIFTCO PS LTD Pembroke House, Aynho Road, Adderbury, 2.82 OX17 3NS, United Kingdom Associated companies Company Name % owned by group Profit or loss Registered address G4S-SJC LLC 20 not material 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S PARSONS PACIFIC LLC 20 not material 7121 Fairway Drive, Suite 301, 33418 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States Joint ventures % owned by Factors on which Date of last group joint management financial year Company Name Registered address undertakings is based if not 31 12 PARKSEC LIMITED Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq 50.1 Joint venture ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta agreement PACIFIC BUILDING SERVICES Level 6, Era Rumana Building Champions Parade, 50 1 director appointed MANAGEMENT LIMITED JV Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea to the board BRIDGEND CUSTODIAL 1 Parc Cottages, Heol Hopcyn John, CF36 6AR 58.45 Joint venture 30 September SERVICES LIMITED Bridgend, United Kingdom agreement BLOEMFONTEIN CORRECTIONAL G4S Gables Building, 1209 Francis Baard Street, 20 Joint venture 30 September CONTRACTS PTY LIMITED Hatfield, 0083 Pretoria, South Africa agreement POLICITY OPERATOR LIMITED 14 Scacham St, Petach Tikva, Israel 50 Joint venture agreement FORBES G4S SOLUTIONS PVT LTD C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, 50 Joint venture Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India agreement FEDERAL GAMING CAPE PTY LTD 1 Waterford Mews, Century Boulevard, 7441 34 Joint venture Century City, South Africa agreement GROUP 4 S SECURITY SOLUTIONS P. O.
Box 22063, 13081 Safat, Kuwait 50.0 Joint venture CO. WLL agreement AL MULLA SECURITY SERVICES P. O.
Box 117, 13002 Safat, Kuwait 49 Joint venture CO WLL agreement G4S QATAR S. P. C Villa no.
321, Corner of Abduallah Bin Rawaha 0 Joint venture Street, C Ring Road, P. O.
Box 18592 Doha, Qatar agreement BUSINESS CASH CENTER S. A. Parc Industriel fide la CFCIM, lot No63, Bouskoura, 45.7 Joint venture Casablanca, Morocco agreement 188 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015
