Strategic report Governance Financials 65 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Each of the directors whose names and functions are listed the Directors Remuneration Report and Financial Statements onpages 38 and 39, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give statements for each financial year.
Under company law the a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial and profit of the Group.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Strategic Report contained in pages 1 to 37 includes a Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under fairreview of the development and performance of the business company law, the directors must not approve the financial and the position of the Group, together with a description of the statements, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
fairview of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company andof the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
For and on behalf of the Board In preparing those Financial Statements, the directors are Greg Fitzgerald requiredto: Executive Chairman 16 September 2015 select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: Forward looking statements make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable Forward looking statements have been made by the directors and prudent: in good faith using information up until the date on which they state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European approved this Annual Report.
Forward looking statements should Union have been followed, subject to any material departures be regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic trends disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and and business risks.
The Groups businesses are generally not prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, affected by seasonality.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and otherirregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differfrom legislation in other jurisdictions.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
