Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2014 Remuneration policy summary Executive Director remuneration policy The companys remuneration policy report was approved on 7 May 2014 at GSKs Annual General Meeting.
The full policy is available at www.
com in the Investors section or in our 2013 Annual Report from page 117 to 126.
The following is a summary of this policy.
Value earned Annual from long-term Total Salary Benets Pension bonus incentive remuneration awards A.
Pension C. Pay for performance Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Salary To provide a core reward for the role.
Individuals role, experience and performance and independently sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when determining salary levels.
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Groups strategic priorities.
Benets Levels are set to recruit and retain Executive Directors are generally eligible to receive benets in line with the policy high calibre individuals to execute the for other employees which may vary by location.
These include travel allowances business strategy.
including spouse partner travel, healthcare, life assurance death in service where not provided as part of the individuals pension arrangements, personal financial advice and contractual post-retirement benets.
Pension Pension arrangements provide a Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans operated competitive level of retirement in the country in which the individual is likely to retire.
chooses not to become a member of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension contribution is paid instead.
New Executive Directors in the UK will be entitled either to join the dened contribution pension plan or to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy dened benefit plan, a dened contribution plan or an alternative pension plan arrangement and is subsequently appointed to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan.
Annual bonus To incentivise and recognise Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of the year by execution of the business strategy the Committee and bonus levels are determined by the Committee based on on an annual basis.
Rewards the achievement of Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the Committee and stretching annual financial and performance against objectives is assessed by the Committee.
strategic business targets and Executive Directors are required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into shares, delivery of personal objectives.
or ADS as appropriate, for three years.
They may defer up to an additional 25% of bonus earned, up to an overall maximum deferral of 50%.
Deferred shares vest at the end of the three year performance period.
Long-term To incentivise and recognise delivery Deferred Annual Bonus Plan incentive awards of the longer term business Deferred shares may be matched subject to the achievement of performance priorities, financial growth and conditions over three years.
Matching awards may be conditional shares or increases in shareholder value nil-cost options and are eligible for dividend equivalents in respect of the compared to other pharmaceutical performance period.
Performance Share Plan In addition, to provide alignment with Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent on the shareholder interests, a retention achievement of performance conditions over three years.
Vested awards element, to encourage long-term are subject to an additional two-year vesting period.
Awards are eligible shareholding and discourage for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.
For details of our policy on clawback malus, recruitment remuneration, loss of ofce and termination payments, please refer to the full 2014 remuneration policy report.
