Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review continued However, following our recent review of the prospects for the ViiV Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare Healthcare business, and our conclusion that we intended to retain ViiV Healthcare, we have decided that the put options held by Trading profit allocations Pzer and Shionogi should now be recognised on the Groups Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of balance sheet.
For the liability for the put options to be recognised its operating results turnover, operating profit, profit after tax are on the Groups balance sheet, IFRS requires the agreements included within the Group income statement and a portion of the giving us the rights to withhold consent to be changed to remove earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned by those rights.
We have now notied Pzer and Shionogi that we the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity have irrevocably given up these rights and we will recognise the shareholdings Pzer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%.
Each of the liability for the put options on the Groups balance sheet in 2016. shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential The estimated present value of the liability for the two put options dividends determined by the performance of certain products that is approximately 2 billion, after adjustments for the value of the each shareholder contributed.
As the relative performance of these preferential dividends due to each of the shareholders.
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change.
Consistent with this revised treatment, in 2016 we also expect to In particular, the increasing sales of Tivicay and Triumeq have a recognise liabilities on the Groups balance sheet for the future favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends preferential dividends anticipated to become payable to Pzer and that is allocated to us.
We were entitled to approximately 80% of Shionogi.
The estimated aggregate present value of the liability for the core earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2015.
The preferential preferential dividends to both Pzer and Shionogi is approximately dividends allocated to Pzer and Shionogi are included in the 170 million.
Acquisition-related arrangements Critical accounting policies As part of the agreement reached to acquire Shionogis interest in the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, we The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance agreed to pay additional consideration to Shionogi contingent on with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also the performance of the products being developed by that joint with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies venture, principally dolutegravir.
At 31 December 2015, the fair approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial value of the contingent consideration due, representing the statements, Accounting principles and policies.
discounted value of the total amount estimated to be payable, We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect was 3,409 million and this has been recognised in the Groups the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported balance sheet with 299 million shown in trade and other payables in the financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ and 3,110 million in other non-current liabilities.
Payments are made to Shionogi each quarter to reduce the liability The critical accounting policies, for which information on the in instalments.
The payments are calculated based on the sales judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial performance of the relevant products in the previous quarter and statements, Key accounting judgements and estimates, and in are reected in the cash ow statement partly in operating cash the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated ows and partly in purchases of businesses, within investing below, relate to the following areas: activities.
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition Turnover of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of Taxation Note 14 659 million is reported in purchases of businesses and the part Legal and other disputes Notes 29 and 45 of each payment relating to the increase in the liability since the Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments Notes 18 acquisition is reported within operating cash ows.
During 2015, and 19 these cash payments amounted to 159 million in total, of which Business combinations Note 38 121 million was reported in operating cash ows and 38 million Pensions and other post-employment benets Note 28. in purchases of businesses.
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas Exit rights is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, Key accounting In certain circumstances, Pzer and Shionogi may require us to judgements and estimates.
acquire their shareholdings at a price based on the likely valuation Turnover of ViiV Healthcare if it were to conduct an initial public offering In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business IPO.
Pzer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has and if either we do not consent to such IPO or an offering is not the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and completed within nine months, Pzer could require us to acquire allowances.
The following briey describes the nature of the its shareholding.
Shionogi may also request GSK to acquire its arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances and six Vaccines business: month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022.
We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby Under the original agreements, we had the unconditional right, so the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at long as we made no subsequent distribution to our shareholders, reduced prices.
A chargeback represents the difference to withhold our consent to the exercise of either of the Pzer or between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect Shionogi put options and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS, customers contractual discounted price.
Accruals for estimating we did not recognise liabilities for these put options on our chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each balance sheet.
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates 70 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at purchasing organisations GPO and other direct and indirect wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
This process uses gross customers.
These arrangements require the customer to achieve sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data certain performance targets relating to the value of product sources and information received from key wholesalers.
The aim purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to relative to competitors.
The accrual for customer rebates is year based on the pattern of consumption.
estimated based on the specic terms in each agreement, On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels historical experience and product growth rates at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered 2015 were estimated to amount to approximately five weeks of programme providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy patients.
In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program of which cannot be totally veried, but is believed to be sufciently was established to reduce state and federal expenditure reliable for this purpose.
In 2010, the Patient Protection and Legal and other disputes Affordable Care Act became law.
We participate by providing In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, rebates to states.
Accruals for Medicaid rebates are calculated the following briey describes the process by which we determine based on the specic terms of the relevant regulations or the the level of provision that is necessary.
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, Provisions, Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt contingent liabilities and contingent assets, we provide for payment.
These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and anticipated settlement costs where an outow of resources is adjusted subsequently to reect actual experience considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, from claims against the Group.
We may become involved in together with market related information such as stock levels at significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be Pharmaceuticals business, including Puerto Rico, is as follows: included in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
2014 2013 This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be 2015 restated restated no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any Margin Margin Margin m % m % m % legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount Gross turnover 8,212 100 7,789 100 8,684 100 of the provisions reported in the Groups financial statements.
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various Market driven complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as segments 1,737 21 1,260 16 1,063 12 investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental Government regulatory agencies.
Throughout the year, the General Counsel mandated and state of the Group, as head of the Groups legal function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, programs 1,874 23 1,381 18 1,194 14 who is responsible for all litigation and government investigations, Cash discounts 154 2 147 2 168 2 routinely brief the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial Customer officer and the Board of Directors on the significant litigation returns 79 1 59 1 64 1 pending against the Group and governmental investigations Prior year of the Group.
adjustments 113 1 156 2 79 1 These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant Other items 248 2 161 2 99 1 litigation and government investigations and review matters such Total deductions 3,979 48 2,852 37 2,509 29 as the number of claims notied to us, information on potential Net turnover 4,233 52 4,937 63 6,175 71 claims not yet notied, assessment of the validity of claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and potential reimbursement by insurers.
Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not is honoured via rebates and chargebacks.
Mandated segments there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal government programs a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
which receive government mandated pricing via rebates and Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation matters chargebacks.
and investigations will also assist in the brieng of the Board and The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances senior management.
Following these discussions, for those and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business are matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the managed on a combined basis.
At 31 December 2015, the total amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the level of accrual amounted to 1,464 million 2014 1,308 million.
provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
These matters are discussed further in Note 45 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
