NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 26 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments The minimum lease payments which the Group is committed to make at 31 December are: 2015 2014 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Payments under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 39 16 30 13 Later than one year and less than five years 132 27 106 22 After five years 200 2 158 2 371 45 294 37 27 Capital expenditure Contracts placed against capital expenditure sanctioned at 31 December 2015 which are not provided by subsidiaries amounted to 148 million property, plant and equipment, 20 million intangible assets 2014: 126 million property, plant and equipment, 19 million intangible assets and the Groups share not provided by equity accounted investments amounted to 9 million property, plant and equipment, nilintangible assets 2014: 9 million property, plant and equipment, nil intangible assets.
28 Related party transactions In the ordinary course of business, sales and purchases of goods take place between subsidiaries and equity accounted investment companies priced on an arms length basis.
Sales by subsidiaries to equity accounted investments in 2015 totalled 35 million 2014: 45million.
The amount due at the year end in respect of such sales was 12 million 2014: 12 million.
Purchases by subsidiaries from equity accounted investments in 2015 totalled 7million 2014: 5 million.
The amount due at the year end in respect of such purchases was 2million 2014: 1 million.
At 31 December 2015, a Group subsidiary had 10 million payable to equity accounted investments companies in respect of unsecured financing facilities bearing interest at 1 month LIBOR plus 1 8% 2014: 7million.
During the year, a child of a member of key management was employed by a subsidiary company.
The remuneration expense during the period of employment on an arms length basis amounted to 2,336 2014: 6,815.
29 Subsidiaries and other undertakings The subsidiary and other undertakings of the GKN Group at 31 December 2015 are shown in note 8 of the GKN plc company accounts.
Subsidiaries were included in the consolidation and are held indirectly by GKN plc through intermediate holding companies.
The undertakings located overseas operate principally in the country of incorporation.
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the GKN Group.
30 Business combinations Acquisition of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. GKN Aerospace acquired Stork Topco B. V. which owns Fokker Technologies Group B. V. a specialist global tier one aerospace supplier from Arle Capital on 28 October 2015.
The Group acquired 100% of the equity.
The entities acquired are together referred to as Fokker.
Fokker is a leading global aerospace specialist that develops and manufactures highly engineered advanced aircraft systems and components for aircraft manufacturers and provides integrated maintenance services and products for aircraft owners and operators.
Fokker is headquartered in the Netherlands and also operates facilities in Romania, Turkey, Canada, Mexico, USA, China, India and Singapore, employing approximately 4,900 people.
Fokker has four divisions: aerostructures, electrical wiring systems, landing gear and services serving customers across commercial, military and business jet end markets and is a leader in advanced composites including thermoplastics and GLARE glass-reinforced aluminium laminates.
Fokker also has strong electrical wiring technology.
The following amounts represent a provisional determination of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Final determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities will be completed within the one year measurement period as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The size and complexity of the Fokker acquisition along with proximity to the reporting date will necessitate the use of this measurement period to further analyse and assess a number of factors used in establishing the asset and liability fair values as of the acquisition date including contractual and operational factors underlying the customer related intangible assets, the assumptions underpinning certain provisions such as those for legal claims and the related tax impacts of any changes made.
Any potential adjustments could be material in relation to the preliminary values presented on page 157.
GKN plc 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 m Intangible assets arising on business combinations marketing related customer related technology based Operating intangible assets development costs Property, plant and equipment Investments equity accounted investments other investments Loans Inventories Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables Government refundable advances Post-employment obligations Derivative financial instruments Provisions Deferred tax Provisional goodwill satisfied by: Fair value of consideration cash and cash equivalents From the date of the acquisition to the balance sheet date, Fokker contributed 102 million to statutory sales and a 5 million loss within trading profit excluding acquisition related charges of 13 million.
If the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2015 the Groups statutory sales and trading profit for the year ended 31 December 2015 are estimated at 7,704 million and 650 million respectively.
Acquisition related charges of 13 million have been recorded in the income statement within trading profit see note 2 for details.
Goodwill which is not tax deductible is attributable to the value of the assembled workforce, expected future synergies from combination with the Groups existing Aerospace business and likelihood of future business awards.
significant judgements, assumptions and estimates in the acquisition accounting for Fokker Valuation of intangible assets methodology A fair value exercise was carried out in conjunction with third party experts and considered the existence of the intangible assets relevant and attributable to the business.
The intangible assets inherent in Fokkers customer relationships contracts were valued using an excess earnings method.
This methodology places a value on the asset as a function of a managements estimate of the expected cash flows arising from the customer contracts: b discount rates reflective of the risks inherent in the cash flows: and c a contributory charge attributable to assets needed to generate the operating cash flows.
An aer tax discount rate of 10% to 12% was applied to the forecast cash flows.
The tradename of Fokker was deemed to have measurable value as it is well recognised in its industry.
It has been valued using a relief from royalty methodology based on projected cash flows attributable to the tradename and an assumed royalty rate of 1% that would be charged if the name were subject to licence within a comparable trade situation and an appropriate discount rate 12% reflecting inherent risk in the projected cash flows.
A total fair value of 51 million has been recognised for tradenames.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 30 Business combinations continued Significant judgements, assumptions and estimates in the acquisition accounting for Fokker continued Valuation of intangible assets methodology continued The proprietary technology and know-how has been valued using a relief from royalty methodology.
The cash flow forecasts supporting this valuation reflect the future sales to be generated in conjunction with the technology.
The fair value attributed to proprietary technology represents the theoretical costs avoided by Fokker from not having to pay a licence fee for the technology.
The royalty rates used in the valuation were 2% to 4%, based on a review of licence agreements for comparable technologies in a similar segment.
An after tax discount rate of 11% was applied to the forecast cash flows, a rate that reflects the inherent risk within cash flows and is comparable with the weighted average cost of capital for the acquisition.
The valuation of all intangible assets reflects the tax benefit of amortisation, which has meant a benefit assessed primarily with reference to the Netherland tax laws.
In order to attribute value to pre-existing development costs a review of capitalised costs as compared with Group policy and an impairment exercise under IAS 36 was performed based on acquisition date information.
The value recognised for operating intangible assets together with the value recognised for customer related intangible assets arising on business combinations is supported by underlying contract valuations prepared under IFRS 3.
Valuation of other assets and liabilities methodology Adjustments were made to property, plant and equipment and investment balances to reflect fair values following external third partyappraisal.
Inventories acquired were assessed for scrap and obsolete items before being fair valued.
Inventories acquired have been valued at current replacement cost for raw materials and selling price, adjusted for costs of completion and disposal and associated margin, for finished goods and work-in-progress.
The fair value of the inventory uplift was 12 million.
Provisions and liabilities include an amount in respect of a legal matter with the Department of Justice and other US regulators see note21, government refundable advances and other contractual obligations.
A liability of 38 million is included in the acquisition balance sheet for a contractual requirement to repay refundable advances provided by the Netherlands Government under a risk sharing arrangement.
The liability has been valued based on forecast cash flows and effective interest rates.
In addition a deferred tax asset of 92 million has been recognised in respect of previous taxable losses.
This has been valued by reference to the expected future profitability of entities, together with an assessment of timing compared to restrictions under .
Other acquisition On 8 June 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Sheets Manufacturing Inc SMI.
SMI specialises in metallic spin forming and is a technology leader in the manufacture of aircraft engine inlet lip skins.
The fair value of consideration was 9 million and comprises an initial cash payment of 6 million plus contingent consideration estimated at 3 million.
The range of the contingent consideration, based on achievement of specific technology milestones is between nil and 3 million.
The fair value of net assets acquired of 9 million comprises: property, plant and equipment of 1million, receivables of 2 million, payables of 2 million, a technology based non-operating intangible asset of 6 million, a deferred tax liability of 1million and goodwill of 3 million.
A further 2 million was paid for acquisition of outstanding share capital in a previously equity accounted investment.
GKN plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
