Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information B Accounting policies Notes to the company balance sheet UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate Disclosure Framework ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency assets and A Presentation of the financial statements liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Dividends paid and received healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, Dividends paid and received are included in the financial development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical statements in the period in which the related dividends are products, including vaccines, over-the-counter OTC medicines actually paid or received.
Expenditure Preparation of financial statements Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
cost convention and on a going concern basis, are prepared in Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation Disclosure Framework and with UK accounting presentation as at can be reliably estimated.
31 December 2015, with comparative gures as at 31 December Investments in subsidiary companies 2014.
There were no comparative gures that required changing Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any as a result of the current year adoption of FRS101.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Impairment of investments income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment Report.
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
The company is included in the Group financial statements of Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
the income statement in the year concerned.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Share based payments been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over in accordance with FRS 101: the companys shares, represents additional capital contributions by the company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders payment equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value IFRS 7, Financial Instruments - Disclosures of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement period.
Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Taxation comparative information requirements in respect of Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38 A, 38 B to D, 40 A to D, enacted by the balance sheet date.
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and IAS 7, Statement of cash ows liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are in accounting estimates and errors considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures and the further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected transactions entered into between two or more members of to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are a Group.
expected to be realised or settled.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Accounting convention and standards The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical Financial guarantees cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf standards.
of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
Accounting principles and policies The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally Legal and other disputes accepted accounting principles requires management to make The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of an outow of resources is considered probable and a reliable assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet.
Actual amounts could legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
At 31 December 2015 provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to 40 million 2014 25 million.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the companys accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note B.
