Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Taxation In preparing the financial statements, management is required Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial by the balance sheet date.
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates.
The following are considered to be the key accounting Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising judgements and estimates made.
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are Turnover recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the profits will be available against which the temporary differences customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences and all relevant obligations have been fullled, such that the arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint earnings process is regarded as being complete.
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is product arrangements and buying groups.
These arrangements provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission enacted by the balance sheet date.
of claims some time after the initial recognition of Derivative financial instruments and hedging the sale.
Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made, market risks.
The principal derivative instruments used by GSK based on available market information and historical experience.
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reect the forward contracts and options.
The Group does not hold or issue final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as held-for-trading The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Derivatives light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past designated as hedging instruments are classied on inception experience and projected market conditions.
Market conditions as cash ow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow market research data and internally generated information.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the Future events could cause the assumptions on which the extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are accruals are based to change, which could affect the future recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Amounts deferred results of the Group.
in other comprehensive income are reclassied to the income statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Taxation Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way and deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between to cash ow hedges.
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value at the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the balance sheet date.
the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do probable that future taxable profits will be available against not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately which the temporary differences can be utilised, based on in the income statement.
managements assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable profits.
Factors affecting the tax charge in Discounting future years are set out in Note 14, Taxation.
A 1% change Where the time value of money is material, balances are in the Groups effective tax rate in 2015 would have changed discounted to current values using appropriate rates of interest.
the total tax charge for the year by approximately 105 million.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
Where an outow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
In calculating any such liability GSK applies a risk based approach which takes into account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
These estimates take into account the specic circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each dispute progresses.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
146 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Business combinations 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Any contingent consideration included in the consideration continued payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
These fair values are generally based Legal and other disputes on risk-adjusted future cash ows discounted using appropriate The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where interest rates.
The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis, an outow of resources is considered probable and a reliable at least annually, and any changes are reected in the income estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and statement.
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the Group.
These estimates take into account the specic circumstances At 31 December 2015, the liability for contingent consideration of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently amounted to 3,855 million 2014 1,724 million see Note 38, judgmental and could change substantially over time as new Acquisitions and disposals.
Of this amount, 3,409 million facts emerge and each dispute progresses.
Details of the status 2014 1,684 million arose on the acquisition of the former and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and 405 million disputes are set out in Note 45, Legal proceedings.
arose on the acquisition of the Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015.
The companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have established provisions after taking into account the relevant During 2015, the Group granted a put option to Novartis in facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with respect of Novartis shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare accounting requirements.
In respect of product liability claims Joint Venture.
In certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims require GSK to acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable Healthcare Joint Venture at a market-based valuation.
This right is estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
exercisable in certain windows from 2018 to 2035 and may be The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect exercised either in respect of Novartis entire shareholding or in of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the up to four instalments.
GSK has recognised a financial liability of expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate 6,287 million in Other non-current liabilities at 31 December resolution of the proceedings.
This represents the present value of the estimated amount disclosure about such cases would be included, but no provision payable by GSK in the event of full exercise of the right by Novartis would be made and no contingent liability can be quantied.
and is calculated by applying market-based multiples to forecast At 31 December 2015 provisions for legal and other disputes future profits in accordance with the shareholder agreements.
Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 30, Other non-current liabilities.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation The assumptions relating to future cash ows and discount rates proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any in these projections or the market-based multiples to change with legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
reported in the Groups financial statements by a material amount.
Pensions and other post-employment benets Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not benets are charged to the income statement in accordance with amortised.
Annual impairment tests of the cash generating IAS 19 Employee benets over the period during which benefit units to which goodwill is allocated are performed.
Impairment is derived from the employees services.
The costs are assessed tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted on the basis of assumptions selected by management.
These future cash ows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, The assumptions used in these impairment tests are set out discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and in Note 18, Goodwill.
mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, Pensions and other post-employment benets.
Where a surplus on a dened benefit In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such scheme arises, or there is potential for a surplus to arise from that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely committed future contributions, the rights of the Trustees to to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
prevent the Group obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if are considered in determining whether it is necessary to restrict events occur which call into question the carrying values of the the amount of the surplus that is recognised.
Where brands and other intangible assets which are not yet available for use are not amortised, they are subject to annual The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined impairment tests.
Valuations for impairment tests are based on based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash ows corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to this for over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited, equities.
discounted using appropriate interest rates as set out in Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields Note 19, Other intangible assets.
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate The assumptions relating to future cash ows, estimated useful bonds where government bond yields are used.
Sensitivity analysis lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are is provided in Note 28, Pensions and other post-employment therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the benets, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately 630 million consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
and an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately 24 million.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
