Additional information Forward looking statements This document contains statements that are, or may be Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, deemed to be, forward looking statements which are officers or advisers, provides any representation, assurance prospective in nature.
These forward looking statements or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or may be identified by the use of forward looking implied in any forward-looking statements in this document terminology, or the negative thereof such as plans, will actually occur.
You are cautioned not to place undue expects or does not expect, is expected, continues, reliance on these forward-looking statements which only assumes, is subject to, budget, scheduled, estimates, speak as of the date of this document.
Other than in aims, forecasts, risks, intends, positioned, accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations predicts, anticipates or does not anticipate, or including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure believes, or variations of such words or comparable and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority terminology and phrases or statements that certain actions, and the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the events or results may, could, should, shall, would, Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and the Listing might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited, Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and its inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation or expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not based on undertaking to update or revise any forward looking historical facts, but rather on current predictions, statements, whether as a result of new information, future expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, events or otherwise.
This document shall not, under any intentions and projections about future events, results of circumstances, create any implication that there has been operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions nochange in the business or affairs of Glencore since the of strategy.
date of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to its date.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are No statement in this document is intended as a profit beyond Glencores control.
Forward looking statements are forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this not guarantees of future performance and may and often document should be interpreted to mean that earnings per do differ materially from actual results.
Important factors Glencore share for the current or future financial years that could cause these uncertainties include, but are not would necessarily match or exceed the historical published limited to those discussed in the Principal Risks and earnings per Glencore share.
Uncertainties section on pages 28 to 35.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any securities.
202 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine fide-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC Certified and manufactured ata mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Printed by Principal Colour Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC Chain ofCustody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel: 41 41 709 2000 Fax: 41 41 709 3000 E-mail: info@glencore.
com FRONT COVER IMAGE: Loading of a ship at Bolivar Port Facitilty, Colombia
