Provisions Contract Claims and Employee provisions Warranty litigation obligations Other Total m m m m m m At January Businesses acquired Net charge credit for the year: Additions Unused amounts reversed Unwind of discounts Amounts used Currency variations At December Due within one year Due in more than one year significant judgements and estimates Whilst estimating provisions requires judgement, the range of reasonably possible outcomes is narrow.
Aer consideration of sensitivity analysis, amounts stated represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome.
Further detail of movements in the year are disclosed in note 2b.
Contract provisions The Group has a small number of onerous contracts and a non-beneficial lease arrangement, primarily arising on business combinations and contractual dispute matters.
Onerous contracts relate to customer programmes where the unavoidable costs of delivering product are in excess of contracted sales prices.
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is estimated as 5 million in 2017 and 22million from 2018.
Warranty Provisions set aside for warranty exposures either relate to amounts provided systematically based on historical experience under contractual warranty obligations attaching to the supply of goods or specic provisions created in respect of individual customer issues undergoing commercial resolution and negotiation.
In the event of a claim, settlement will be negotiated with the customer based on supply of replacement products and compensation for the customers associated costs.
Amounts set aside represent managements best estimate of the likely settlement and the timing of any resolution with the relevant customer.
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is estimated as 14 million in 2017 and 7 million from 2018.
Claims and litigation Claims provisions are held in the Groups captive insurance company and amount to 9 million 2014: 9million.
Claims provisions and charges are established in accordance with external insurance and actuarial advice.
Legal provisions amounting to 36 million 2014: 5 million relate to management estimates of amounts required to settle or remove litigation actions that have arisen in the normal course of business or taken on as a result of a business combination.
Included in businesses acquired is an amount in relation to Fokkers services division who voluntarily disclosed violations to US regulators before the Groups acquisition relating to historical conduct involving transactions and customers in US sanctioned countries.
Further details of legal matters are not provided to avoid the potential of seriously prejudicing the Groups stance in law.
Amounts unused and reversed only arise when the matter is formally settled or when a material change in the litigation action occurs where legal advice confirms lower amounts need to be retained to cover the exposure.
As a consequence of primarily legacy activities a small number of sites in the Group are subject to environmental remediation actions, which in all cases are either agreed formally with relevant local and national authorities and agencies or represent managements view of the likely outcome having taken appropriate expert advice and following consultation with appropriate authorities and agencies.
Amounts of 5 million 2014: 3 million are provided.
Utilisation of the claims and litigation provision due in more than one year is estimated as 5 million in 2017 and 5 million from 2018.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
