The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Key judgements Corporate information In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made the following judgements based on the Glencore plc the Company, Parent, the Group or relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic Glencore, is a leading integrated producer and marketer of circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying natural resources, with worldwide activities in the production, agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements physical commodities sourced from third party producers and seenote 34 own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of industries.
Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements.
This requires an services to producers and consumers of commodities.
In this assessment of the relevant activities those relating to the operating regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of supply chain.
Glencores long experience as a commodity producer the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its remunerating and terminating the key management personnel expertise in the commodities which it markets and cultivate longor service providers of the operations and when the decisions term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or diverse industries and in multiple geographic regions.
Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in Judgement is also required in determining the classification of Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from the arrangement.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 7 March 2016.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated Statement of compliance financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity method or proportionate consolidation method.
The accounting policies adopted in this preliminary announcement are based on the Companys financial statements which are Exploration and evaluation expenditure notes 7 and 29 prepared in accordance with: The application of Glencores accounting policy for exploration and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploitation effective as of 31 December 2015: and or sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage that permits areasonable assessment of the existence of reserves resource.
IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as of Credit and performance risk note 25 31 December 2015.
The Groups global marketing operations expose it to credit and performance the risk that counterparties fail to sell or Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation purchase physical commodities on agreed terms risks: these arise The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as and or regional macro-economic conditions are weak.
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received.
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, may materially impact both non-current and current assets as independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, recognised in the statement of financial position.
Actual outcomes could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical to understanding Glencores financial position as they require management to make complex and or subjective judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain: 116 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Recognition of deferred tax assets note 6 Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and plant and equipment note 7 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
Mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and certain This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets plant and equipment are depreciated amortised using the Units are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether there will be of Production basis UOP.
The calculation of the UOP rate sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax assets when they of depreciation amortisation, and therefore the annual charge do reverse.
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates.
This could and therefore, to the extent assumptions regarding future generally result when there are significant changes in any of the profitability change, there can be a material increase or decrease in factors or assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of income reserves and resources, notably changes in the geology of the in the period in which the change occurs.
The recoverability of reserves and resources and assumptions used in determining deferred tax assets including the estimates and assumptions the economic feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in reserves contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
and resources could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited Classification of transactions which contain a financing element to the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of notes20and 23 the underlying reserves and resources.
Estimates of proven and probable reserves and resources are prepared by experts in Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain extraction, geology and reserve determination.
Assessments of a financing element such as extended payment term agreements.
UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and the Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate operating and development plan are performed regularly.
classification and presentation of these transactions within the statements of cash flows and financial position.
In determining the Impairments notes 3, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 appropriate classification, management considers the underlying economic substance of the transaction and the significance of Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, the financing element to the transaction.
Typically the economic advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible substance of the transaction is determined to be operating in assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes nature, i. e. predominantly related to the sale or purchase of in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully commodities as the financing element is insignificant and the entire recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite cash flow will therefore be presented as operating in the statement life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than of cash flow with a corresponding trade receivable or payable in the the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in statement of financial position.
the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted Key estimates and assumptions using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
reserves and resources, operating, rehabilitation and restoration The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have costs and capital expenditures.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by a significant impact on the financial position and the results of management.
Changes in such estimates and in particular, further operations, are described below.
Actual results may differ from deterioration in the pricing outlook, could impact the recoverable these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and values of these assets, whereby some or all of the carrying amount may materially affect financial results or the financial position may be impaired or the impairment charge reduced if pricing reported in future periods.
outlook improves significantly with the impact recorded in the statement of income.
Valuation of derivative instruments note 27 Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore Provisions note 21 evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate 1, 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including Fair values are determined in the following ways: externally any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
The Group assesses Level 1 : by using models with externally verifiable inputs its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information Level2 : or by using alternative procedures such as comparison available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements.
tocomparable instruments and or using models with unobservable These provisions may require settlement in future periods and market inputs requiring Glencore to make market-based as such may be materially impacted by the time value of money.
Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest The determination of the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate level of estimation uncertainty.
to reflect time value of money is a source of estimation uncertainty which could impact the carrying value of these provisions at the balance sheet date.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for year ends beginning on or after 1 January 2018 Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs note 21 IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS.
decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
of the possible disturbance, the timing, extent and costs of the required closure and rehabilitation activities and of the risk IFRS 16 Leases effective for year ends beginning on or after adjusted discount rates used to determine the present value of 1January2019 the future cash outflows.
To the extent that the actual future costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for identification of lease and the consolidated statement of income could be impacted.
arrangements and their treatment in the financial statements The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained of both lessees and lessors.
It supersedes IAS 17 Leases and its therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Fair value measurements notes 9, 12, 25, 26 and 27 The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new and revised standards may have on the financial statements In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, of Glencore.
as discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most Basis of preparation notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in derived from publicly available information, they are estimated exchange for goods and services.
The principal accounting policies using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, adopted are set out below.
the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation transactions often do not exist.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 New and revised standards not yet effective Annual Report and Accounts.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements.
Further information on Glencores statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective: financial risks are detailed in note 25.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, of Depreciation and Amortisation effective for year ends beginning on unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant orafter 1 January 2016 functional currency of Glencores operations.
The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment prohibits entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method Principles of consolidation for items of property, plant and equipment and the amendments The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial to IAS 38 Intangible Assets introduce a rebuttable presumption statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for year ends beginning on variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the orafter 1 January 2018 ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore classes of financial assets and liabilities.
The most significant has all of the following: change is to rationalise from four to two primary categories of financial assets.
power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
118 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an Investments in associates and joint ventures investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant Associates and joint ventures together Associates in which facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are investee including: accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions the size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have other parties: joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions require Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings.
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in of the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary that Associate.
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for as from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount ceases to control the subsidiary.
by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration received being recognised directly in Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income the consolidated statement of income.
are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the noncontrolling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is Joint operations attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and a deficit balance.
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with Glencore applies the proportionate consolidation method the Groups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and and recognises: liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly: on consolidation.
its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly: Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling the joint operation: interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to operation: and equity holders of Glencore.
its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance value of the consideration received and the fair value of any with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the revenues and expenses.
assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that accounted for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related joint operation.
assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising Business combinations and goodwill from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Revenue recognition The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer identifiable net assets are recognised at their fair value at the all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised consolidated statement of income as incurred.
at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured.
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or consolidated statement of income.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencores provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of purchased goodwill.
final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised directly in profit onan accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the or loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not able to relevantagreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, bereversed in subsequent periods.
byreference to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss Foreign currency translation on disposal.
Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of the If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed to the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, be the principal currency of the economic environment in which Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the it operates.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted for additional information obtained during the measurement Foreign currency transactions period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at that date.
year end are converted at year-end rates.
The resulting exchange differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys Translation of financial statements net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate companies whose functional currency is in a currency other share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net than the US dollar are translated into US dollars using year-end assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a transactionexchange rates, while their statements of income are translated by-transaction basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are using average rates of exchange for the year.
measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified inanother IFRS.
120 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition Cash-settled share-based payments of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and  equity and have no consolidated statement of income based performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reporting impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value has occurred.
with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate Income taxes to the financing of construction or development of qualifying Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax Retirement benefits payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to companies equal the contributions that are required under the be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary plans and accounted for as an expense.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service benefit will be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate statement of income so as to recognise current and past service to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other the consolidated statement of income.
The retirement benefit than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that obligation asset recognised in the consolidated statement of initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates Glencores defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax future contributions to the plans.
is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income pension plans, however are unfunded.
in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement Share-based payments of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a Equity-settled share-based payments business combination.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics conditions.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement of an income tax including being imposed and determined of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis in accordance with regulations established by the respective over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
governments taxation authority and the amount payable is based on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of or as a percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to included in cost of goods sold.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 121 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future Property, plant and equipment exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, property, plant and equipment.
Purchased exploration and including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest or concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine at the CGU level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not LOM, field or lease.
expected to be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific depreciated amortised on a UOP and or straight-line basis exploration area are charged to the consolidated statement of as follows: income.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the Buildings 10 45 years term of the permit.
Freehold land not depreciated Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP Development expenditure Mineral and petroleum rights UOP When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, Deferred mining costs UOP capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to construction in progress, a component within the plant and Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks equipment asset sub-category.
All subsequent development and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds from the sale of the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the product extracted during the development phase are netted against relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, development expenditure.
Upon completion of development and the expenditures for which are charged against income over the commencement of production, capitalised development costs accounting periods covered by the lease term.
are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of Mineral and petroleum rights production method UOP or straight-line basis.
Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, Deferred mining costs are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mainly comprises certain capitalised costs related to underground Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be mining as well as pre-production and in-production stripping reasonably determined are not recognised.
Exploitable Mineral activities as outlined below.
Deferred mining costs are amortised and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to which those commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, costs relate.
Mineral resources are included in amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of Deferred stripping costs confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of Exploration and evaluation expenditure constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum resources and includes costs such as exploration and production In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of preimproved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for asset, are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, thefollowing conditions are met: is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from a it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned the stripping activity will be realised: to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
As the intangible component i. e. licences represents 122 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information b the component of the ore body for which access has been Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the improved can be identified: and related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income in the period in which c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with theexpenditure is incurred.
theimproved access can be reliably measured.
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The amortisation are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they method and period are reviewed annually and impairment are incurred.
testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Other than goodwill which is not The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body indefinite life.
that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line accumulated impairment losses.
basis as follows: Port allocation rights 30 40 years Biological assets Licences, trademarks and software 3 20 years Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are Royalty arrangements 30 40 years included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in Acquired offtake arrangements 5 10 years which they arise.
Other investments Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted determinable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in fair using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income unwinding of the discount on the provision.
when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at Impairment their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement of income as extraction progresses.
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes indications of impairment.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised A formal impairment test involves determining whether the cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
In the case of closed sites, An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Such reviews consolidated statement of income.
are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case Intangible assets the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation calculated on a straightline basis over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 123 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Cash and cash equivalents An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets recognised.
The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable approximates their fair value.
amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment Financial instruments loss had not been recognised.
Goodwill impairments and Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity besubsequently reversed.
investments or available for sale financial assets depending upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Provisions Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can costs.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value other be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
investments, derivatives and marketable securities or amortised cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying Own shares amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity.
the time value of money is material.
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of Onerous contracts income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the employees are recognised in equity.
obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations Derivatives and hedging activities arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or as provisions.
purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to Unfavourable contracts the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of ofthe underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
the economic loss and amortised into income over the term of the contract.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment Inventories mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
The vast majority of inventories held by the marketing activities marketing inventories are valued at fair value less costs of Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or net either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, fairvalue are reported in cost of goods sold.
or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be receivedor paid relating to a recognised asset or liability Inventories held by the industrial activities production orahighly probable transaction.
inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as incurred.
124 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
The deferred amount is then released to if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated statement of income when it occurs.
A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if the gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders criteria for separation are met.
The host contract is accounted equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of forinaccordance with its relevant accounting policy.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amount core business segments metals and minerals, energy products represents unallocated Group related expenses including variable and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible pool bonus charges.
Statement of financial position amounts for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial represent Group related balances.
investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the The financial performance of the segments is principally performance of Glencore.
evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and The business segments contributions to the Group are administrative expenses plus share of income from other associates primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share physical marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical of underlying Adjusted EBIT EBITDA of certain associates and commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add joint ventures which are accounted for internally by means of services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities proportionate consolidation.
net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as underlying key commodities: those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates and joint ventures.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, Antamina copper zinc mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, mine 33% owned are considered to be associates as they are refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% the relevant commodities: owned is considered to be a joint venture.
Associates and joint ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencores financial Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: and under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencores proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil of the investments.
The balances as presented for internal reporting seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures as by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and outlined in the following tables.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 125 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
2015 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total 1 Revenue Marketing activities 41,151 75,206 20,617 136,974 Revenue Industrial activities 24,782 8,406 2,529 4 35,721 Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,280 826 584 30 2,660 Depreciation and amortisation 25 48 123 196 Adjusted EBIT 1,255 778 461 30 2,464 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 4,030 2,269 150 415 6,034 2 Depreciation and amortisation 3,882 2,357 87 6,326 Adjusted EBIT 148 88 63 415 292 Total adjusted EBITDA 5,310 3,095 734 445 8,694 Depreciation and amortisation 3,907 2,405 210 6,522 Total adjusted EBIT 1,403 690 524 445 2,172 3 Significant items 4 Other expense net 7,998 5 Share of associates exceptional items 88 Unrealised intergroup loss elimination adjustments 6 andother 445 7 Interest expense net 1,391 8 Losses gains on disposals and investments 994 9 Income tax expense 260 Loss for the year 8,114 1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $17,843 million, Energy products segment $2,318 million and Agricultural products $1,847 million.
2 Includes an adjustment of $687 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $501 million and Energy products segment $186 million, see reconciliation table below.
3 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
5 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Century.
6 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm.
Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
7 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $3 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: net finance costs of $9 million and Energy products segment net finance costs of $6 million, see reconciliation table below.
9 Includes an adjustment of $162 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $103 million and Energy products segment $59 million, see reconciliation table below.
126 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total 1 Revenue Marketing activities 35,025 120,863 22,523 178,411 Revenue Industrial activities 31,025 11,117 3,298 132 45,572 Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 565 996 105 3,001 Depreciation and amortisation 30 41 140 211 Adjusted EBIT 1,515 524 856 105 2,790 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 7,077 2,841 213 368 9,763 2 Depreciation and amortisation 3,403 2,355 77 12 5,847 Adjusted EBIT 3,674 486 136 380 3,916 Total adjusted EBITDA 8,622 3,406 1,209 473 12,764 Depreciation and amortisation 3,433 2,396 217 12 6,058 Total adjusted EBIT 5,189 1,010 992 485 6,706 3 Significant items 4 Other expense net 1,073 5 Share of associates exceptional items 74 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination 6 adjustmentsandother 221 7 Interest expense net 1,457 8 Losses gains on disposals and investments 715 9 Income tax expense 2,152 Income for the year 2,444 1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $23,902 million, Energy products segment $3,275 million and Agricultural products $2,315 million.
2 Includes an adjustment of $610 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $430 million and Energy products segment $180 million, see reconciliation table below.
5 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Lonmin, relating mainly to various costs incurred in connection with the prolonged platinum strikes in South Africa.
6 Comprises the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions of $187 million.
The balance comprises an adjustment of $34 million arising from losses incurred as a result of typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
7 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $14 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: net finance costs of $18 million and Energy products segment net finance costs of $4 million, see reconciliation table below.
9 Includes an adjustment of $343 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $266 million and Energy products segment $77 million, see reconciliation table below.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 127 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 2015 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 21,707 12,131 5,720 106 39,452 Current liabilities 10,848 15,913 2,685 309 29,755 Allocatable current capital employed 10,859 3,782 3,035 415 9,697 Property, plant and equipment 34,665 23,443 2,836 334 61,278 Intangible assets 3,695 2,915 889 17 7,516 Investments in associates and other investments 8,088 3,926 628 12,642 Non-current advances and loans 1,414 1,369 114 108 3,005 Allocatable non-current capital employed 47,862 31,653 4,467 459 84,441 1 Other assets 4,592 4,592 2 Other liabilities 57,387 57,387 Total net assets 58,721 27,871 7,502 52,751 41,343 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 81 17 146 244 3 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 4,149 1,303 98 163 5,713 Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
3 Includes an adjustment of $328 million to capital expenditure related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $292 million and Energy products segment $36 million, see reconciliation table below.
2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 29,620 14,433 6,758 447 50,364 Current liabilities 11,334 17,264 2,870 474 31,942 Allocatable current capital employed 18,286 2,831 3,888 921 18,422 Property, plant and equipment 38,663 28,039 2,899 509 70,110 Intangible assets 3,728 4,097 902 139 8,866 Investments in associates and other investments 9,660 3,561 525 13,746 Non-current advances and loans 1,834 2,518 138 107 4,597 Allocatable non-current capital employed 53,885 38,215 4,464 755 97,319 1 Other assets 4,522 4,522 2 Other liabilities 68,783 68,783 Total net assets 72,171 35,384 8,352 64,427 51,480 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 47 60 162 269 3 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 6,675 2,234 87 262 9,258 Capital expenditure 6,722 2,294 249 262 9,527 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
3 Includes an adjustment of $467 million to capital expenditure related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $368 million and Energy products segment $99 million, see reconciliation table below.
128 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The reconciliation of certain associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT to Share of net income from associates and joint ventures for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 is as follows: 2015 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 1,578 620 2,198 Revenue reported measure 64,355 82,992 23,146 4 170,497 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 806 189 995 Depreciation and amortisation 501 186 687 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 305 3 308 Net finance costs 9 6 3 Income tax expense 103 59 162 Net finance costs and income tax expense 94 65 159 Share of income loss from certain associates and joint ventures 211 62 149 Share of loss income from other associates 35 15 2 48 1 Share of income loss from associates and joint ventures 176 77 2 101 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 292 36 328 Capital expenditure reported measure 3,938 1,284 244 163 5,629 1 Comprises share in earnings of $80 million from industrial activities and $21 million from marketing activities.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 129 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures onaproportionate consolidation basis 2,156 754 2,910 Revenue reported measure 63,894 131,226 25,821 132 221,073 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 1,292 260 1,552 Depreciation and amortisation 430 180 610 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 862 80 942 Net finance costs 18 4 14 Income tax expense 266 77 343 Net finance costs and income tax expense 248 81 329 Share of income loss from certain associates and joint ventures 614 1 613 Share of loss income from other associates 36 3 58 25 1 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 578 2 58 638 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 6,722 2,294 249 262 9,527 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures onaproportionate consolidation basis 368 99 467 Capital expenditure reported measure 6,354 2,195 249 262 9,060 1 Comprises share in earnings of $571 million from industrial activities and $67 million from marketing activities.
130 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT of certain associates and joint ventures.
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation.
The reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT EBITDA to the reported measures is as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 Reported measures Revenue 170,497 221,073 Cost of goods sold 166,982 214,344 Selling and administrative expenses 1,271 1,304 Share of associates and joint ventures 101 638 Dividend income 25 19 2,370 6,082 Adjustments to reported measures Share of associates exceptional items 88 74 Unrealised intergroup loss profit elimination 445 221 357 295 Net finance and income tax expense impact of presenting certain associates  basis 159 329 Adjusted EBIT 2,172 6,706 Depreciation and amortisation 5,835 5,448 Depreciation impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures  687 610 Adjusted EBITDA 8,694 12,764 Geographical information US$ million 2015 2014 1 Revenue from third parties The Americas 32,985 47,274 Europe 54,857 70,595 Asia 64,298 86,619 Africa 6,286 8,206 Oceania 12,071 8,379 170,497 221,073 2 Non-current assets The Americas 22,663 23,471 Europe 8,447 9,316 Asia 5,416 5,922 Africa 19,841 23,642 Oceania 23,764 28,899 80,131 91,250 1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty, however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 131 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 3.
LOSSES GAINS ON DISPOSALS AND INVESTMENTS US$ million 2015 2014 Loss on cessation of control of Optimum 1,034 Loss on distribution of interest in Lonmin 256 Gain on sale of other operations 296 715 Total 994 715 Optimum In August 2015, the directors of Optimum Coal resolved to commence business rescue proceedings and place the company under the control and supervision of the business rescue practitioners, resulting in the Group ceasing to have control over Optimum.
In December, the business rescue practitioners reached agreement to sell the business, which is expected to close by H1 2016.
Due to cessation of control of Optimum, the net assets were deconsolidated, with the fair value of such determined to be $nil, being the estimated amount to be received following the sale.
As a result, a loss of $1,034 million was recognised, which includes $311 million of foreign currency translation losses previously recognised in equity and $152 million of related impairments see note 24.
Lonmin On 9 June 2015, following approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, Glencore completed the in specie distribution of its 23.9% stake in Lonmin plc.
Based on the closing Lonmin share price a Level 1 valuation technique at the time of distribution, its fair value was determined to be $298 million and as a result, a $256 million loss on disposal of the investment was recognised see notes 10 and 17.
Other Gain on sale of other operations arises primarily from the disposals of the Tampakan and Falcondo operations in August 2015, which resulted in a net gain of $192 million and $87 million respectively see note 24.
In 2014, the gain on sale of other operations comprised the gain of $715 million from the Las Bambas sale transaction.
Tax of $531 million was paid upon completion, resulting in a net gain of $184 million.
OTHER EXPENSE NET US$ million Notes 2015 2014 Impairments 5 7,120 1,101 Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading net 262 134 Net foreign exchange losses 173 76 Loss on metal leak 235 Legal settlement 89 Acquisition related expenses 10 Gain loss on bond buy-backs 35 95 1 Other expense net 154 75 Total 7,998 1,073 1 Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2015 mainly comprises restructuring and closure costs of $142 million.
Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprises a $75 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expense net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expense net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges and restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading net Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencores interest in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. and Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps accounting for the majority of the movement see note 10.
Loss from metal leak In December 2014, a metal leak in Line 1 of the metallurgical plant at Koniambo was detected and the related production suspended.
Following an extensive investigation during H1 2015, it was determined that the furnace would need to be rebuilt repaired at a cost of approximately $60 million and incremental net operating costs of an additional $175 million were incurred in relation to this incident.
A claim for reimbursement of costs has been made under available insurance policies, whereby any associated recoveries will be recognised as the claim progresses.
132 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Legal settlement In April 2015, OMV Petrom was awarded $89 million related to a dispute over oil deliveries in the early 1990s.
Glencore has appealed the ruling.
Acquisition related expenses 2014 acquisition related expenses were incurred in connection with prior year acquisitions see note 24.
Gain loss on bond buy-backs In 2015, Glencore acquired $564 million of outstanding bonds, at a discount to their carrying values, realising a gain of $35 million seenote 19.
In 2014, Glencore tendered for and cancelled 25% of its outstanding convertible bonds and Canadian dollar bonds originally issued by the Viterra Group acquired by Glencore in 2012, booking the premium over book carrying value as an expense of $70 million and $25 million respectively.
IMPAIRMENTS US$ million Notes 2015 2014 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 8 6,028 886 Investments 10 209 135 Advances and loans non current 11 455 Trade advances and deposits 13 359 1 Non-current inventory and other 69 80 2 Total impairments 7,120 1,101 1 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
2 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $5,135 million 2014: $791 million, Energy products $1,969 million 2014: $247 million and Agricultural products $16 million 2014: $63 million.
As part of a regular portfolio review, Glencore carries out an assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether apreviously recorded impairment may no longer be required.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and three year business plans, which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations.
The valuation models use the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 6% 12% 2014: 5.5% 13%.
The valuations remain sensitive to price and further deterioration improvements in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairments reversals.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years.
As a result of the regular impairment assessment, the following significant impairment charges resulted: 2015 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Following the sharp decline in oil prices in 2015, significant amendments were made to Chads work programme, with the objective of preserving value for the long term, while reducing cash outlays in the near term.
This included changes to the fields capex and production profiles and significantly reducing the number of drilling rigs in operation.
As a result, the carrying value of these fields blocks Energy products segment was impaired by $1,031 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $2,012 million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The shortto long-term oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $40 $80 per barrel.
Upon further review and evaluation of the exploration activities on the Tilapia licence in Cameroon Energy product segment it was determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying value of $27 million was impaired.
As a result of the current subdued coking coal market and resulting weak shorter-term price outlook, the Oaky Creek coking coal operations Energy products segment were determined to be impaired by $240 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $959 million, given the relatively short life of one of the relevant mines.
The valuation remains sensitive to coking coal prices and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The shortto long-term coking coal price assumptions used in the valuation were between $81 $135 per metric tonne.
In Q4 2015, it was determined, for the foreseeable future, to defer the Blakefield North coal project and place the Ravensworth underground coal operations Energy products segment on care and maintenance.
As a result, the full carrying value of these projects $82 million was impaired.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 5.
IMPAIRMENTS continued Due to continued subdued current and long-term nickel prices and the ongoing operational and technical challenges at the Koniambo processing plant, it was determined, post significant line one furnace redesign repair work, to operate only one processing line of two for an extended period of time until it proves itself to be technically robust.
As a result of this updated plan and reflecting the lower nickel price environment, Koniambo Metal and minerals segment was written down to its recoverable value of $917 million, resulting in a $3,989 million impairment.
The shortto long-term nickel prices used in the valuation were between $12,500 $16,000 per metric tonne.
Sherwin Alumina Metal and minerals segment is an alumina production facility located in Corpus Christi, USA.
Adverse market conditions resulted in a decrease in its valuation to an estimated recoverable value of $nil and, as a result, an impairment of $128 million was recognised.
Since January 2016, Sherwin has been under United States Chapter 11 proceedings.
Kabanga Metal and minerals segment is an undeveloped nickel deposit in Tanzania, in which Glencore has a 50% interest.
Over the past year, a sales process was undertaken to find a potential buyer.
No acceptable bids were received and as a result the project was written down to $nil, reflective of the lower nickel price environment noted above, resulting in an impairment of $115 million.
Following a strategic review of the Komarovskoe within Kazzinc gold mining deposit Metal and minerals segment it was determined to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of $70 million was impaired.
Following the placing of Eland Platinum Metal and minerals segment on care and maintenance in October 2015 and a further deterioration in platinum prices, it was determined that its recoverable value was $nil and, as a result, an impairment of $77 million was recognised.
The London Metal Exchange LME proposed changes to its warehousing regulations in a further attempt to reduce metal queues via increasing load-out rates and capping longer-term rental income streams.
These amendments are anticipated to be enacted in H12016.
As a result, the goodwill of $169 million relating to the Pacorini metals warehousing business Metals and minerals segment was impaired by $119 million to a recoverable value of $50 million see notes 8 and 9.
The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $85 million and $65 million being recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
Investments Based on lower midto long-term aluminium price assumptions, it was determined that the recoverable value of our investment in Century Aluminum Company was $592 million with a resulting impairment of $162 million.
The recoverable amount was determined using similar valuation techniques and inputs described above.
The shortto long-term aluminium prices used in the valuation were between $1,550 $1,790 per metric tonne.
2014 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Following the steep decline in iron ore prices and the decision to suspend development at our Mauritanian and Congo iron ore operations Metals and minerals segment, their carrying values were impaired by $431 million, to their estimated recoverable value of $50 million.
Upon further review and evaluation of our exploration activities at the Matanda Oil field in Cameroon Energy product segment, it was determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying value of $212 million was impaired.
The continued challenging platinum market conditions resulted in the carrying value of our South African platinum operations Metals and minerals segment being written down to their estimated recoverable value, resulting in an impairment charge of $146 million being recognised.
The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $53 million, $26 million and $18 million being recognised in our Agricultural products, Energy products and Metals and minerals segments respectively.
Investments In 2014, our investment in the El Aouj Joint Venture, Mauritania was impaired by $58 million, in relation to iron ore prices and the associated development activity.
In addition, an impairment charge of $77 million was recognised related to a copper minority investment, Mineracao Caraiba S. A. in Brazil, due to operational challenges.
Post these charges, the estimated recoverable values of these investments amounted to $51 million and $28 million respectively.
The recoverable amounts of the investments were determined using similar valuation techniques and inputs as described above.
134 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 6.
INCOME TAXES Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2015 2014 Current income tax expense 443 1,447 Deferred income tax credit expense 345 362 Total tax expense 98 1,809 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: US$ million 2015 2014 Loss income before income taxes and attribution 8,016 4,253 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures 101 638 Parent Companys and subsidiaries loss income before income tax and attribution 8,117 3,615 Income tax expense credit calculated at the Swiss income tax rate 1,218 542 Tax effects of: Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 154 971 Tax exempt income 341 150 Items not tax deductible 1,042 488 Foreign exchange fluctuations 307 851 Changes in tax rates 44 20 1 Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences 199 915 Other 1 2 Income tax expense 98 1,809 1 2014 includes $636 million of available capital deductions not previously recognised.
Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are attributable to the items detailed in the table below: US$ million Notes 2015 2014 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,680 1,417 Other 166 250 Total 1,846 1,667 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 5,483 5,894 Mark-to-market valuations 238 87 Other 56 454 Total 5,777 6,435 Total deferred tax net 3,931 4,768 Reconciliation of deferred tax net 1 January 4,768 4,593 Recognised in income for the year 345 362 Recognised in other comprehensive income 77 86 Business combination 24 17 52 Disposal and loss of control of subsidiaries 24 205 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 349 156 Other 2 3 31 December 3,931 4,768 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 135 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 6.
INCOME TAXES continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31 December 2015, $3,736 million 2014: $3,355 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,680 million 2014: $1,417 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$1,149 million 2014: $528 million of net deferred tax assets arise in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in either 2015 or 2014.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised.
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements, are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 1 year 153 204 2 years 69 49 3 years 534 38 1 Thereafter 1,717 2,543 Unlimited 1,444 1,022 Total 3,917 3,856 1 2015 excludes gross tax losses of $14.5 billion recognised in the standalone entity accounts of Glencore plc.
As at 31 December 2015, unremitted earnings of $41,285 million 2014: $63,245 million have been retained by subsidiaries and associates for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land Plant and Mineral and Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes and buildings equipment petroleum rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2015 5,568 52,840 23,416 1,285 2,330 85,439 1 Restatement 911 911 1 January 2015 Restated 5,568 52,840 22,505 2,196 2,330 85,439 Business combination 24 85 201 286 Disposals and cessation of control of subsidiaries 24 125 597 541 1,263 Additions 121 4,534 428 147 355 5,585 Disposals 34 476 14 4 528 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 131 1,300 843 2,274 Other movements 158 835 956 6 319 34 31 December 2015 5,326 56,037 20,579 2,337 3,000 87,279 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 January 2015 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329 Disposals and cessation of control of subsidiaries 24 22 166 89 277 Depreciation 251 4,168 1,028 259 5,706 Disposals 6 416 5 427 Impairments 5 18 5,147 641 74 5,880 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 16 227 102 345 Other movements 5 156 36 29 9 135 31 December 2015 995 19,067 4,324 784 831 26,001 Net book value 31December2015 4,331 36,970 16,255 1,553 2,169 61,278 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Caracal see note 24.
136 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Freehold land Plant and Mineral and Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes andbuildings equipment petroleum rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2014 5,301 47,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715 Business combination 24 37 302 723 1,115 2,177 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 1 28 74 103 Additions 138 6,847 354 245 487 8,071 Disposals 28 348 14 60 3 453 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 83 611 329 1,023 Other movements 204 1,104 379 147 429 55 31 December 2014 5,568 52,840 22,505 2,196 2,330 85,439 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 January 2014 542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482 Depreciation 245 3,699 1,144 224 5,312 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 14 14 Disposals 9 231 58 1 299 Impairments 52025739555 871 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 8 83 26 117 Other movements 15 58 136 54 249 94 31 December 2014 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329 Net book value 31December2014 4,793 42,435 19,618 1,515 1,749 70,110 Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $5,011 million 2014: $9,862 million and a net book value of $596 million 2014: $536 million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets of $71 million 2014: $98 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,683 million 2014: $5,287 million and in selling and administrative expenses $23 million 2014: $25 million.
During 2015, $163 million 2014: $348 million of interest was capitalised, $163 million 2014: $263 million within property, plant and equipment and $nil within assets held for sale 2014: $85 million.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 2.9% 2014: 3.3%.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Licences, Royalty and Port allocation trademarks and acquired offtake US$ million Goodwill rights software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2015 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341 1 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 670 116 786 Additions 26 18 44 Disposals 2 73 75 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 479 10 9 498 Other movements 32 15 13 60 31 December 2015 14,122 1,252 394 318 16,086 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2015 8,124 94 111 146 8,475 1 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 46 28 74 2 Amortisation expense 42 29 58 129 3 Impairment 119 29 148 Disposals 2 70 72 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 23 7 5 35 Other movements 4 3 1 31 December 2015 8,243 67 156 104 8,570 Net carrying amount 31 December 2015 5,879 1,185 238 214 7,516 1 See note 24.
2 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Licences, Royalty and Port allocation trademarks and acquired offtake US$ million Goodwill rights software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2014 14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490 1 Business combination 1 12 13 Additions 17 11 28 Disposals 26 2 28 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 235 5 3 243 Other movements 52 29 81 31 December 2014 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2014 8,124 57 69 82 8,332 2 Amortisation expense 44 35 57 136 3 Impairment 15 15 Disposals 21 2 23 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 7 1 8 Other movements 14 9 23 31 December 2014 8,124 94 111 146 8,475 Net carrying amount 31 December 2014 5,998 2,275 254 339 8,866 1 See note 24.
138 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 50 169 Total 5,879 5,998 Grain marketing business Goodwill of $829 million 2014: $829 million was recognised in previous business combinations attributable to synergies associated with the grain marketing division CGU.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $3,326 million and $1,674 million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated to the metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
Metals warehousing business As a result of the proposed changes to the LME warehousing regulations, the goodwill balance of $169 million was impaired to $50 million see note 5.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa, recognised as part of previous business combinations.
The rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business combination.
This amount is amortised on a unit of production basis through to 2027, the expected mine life.
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive certain products produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time.
These rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 15 years.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 139 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 9.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitor and manage the goodwill as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business refer to note 5 50 169 Total 5,879 5,998 In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed insubsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD compared against a VIU cash flow projection which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2016 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 11.0 times 2014: 11.5 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques inboth years.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Investments in associates and joint ventures US$ million Notes 2015 2014 1 January 12,274 12,156 Additions 236 372 Disposals 612 38 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 101 638 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 26 23 Dividends received 428 1,129 Impairments 5 209 135 Reclassification 46 396 Other movements 45 37 31 December 11,337 12,274 Of which: Investments in associates 8,166 9,066 Investments in joint ventures 3,171 3,208 As at 31 December 2015, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $681 million 2014:$1,487 million, using published price quotations a Level 1 fair value measurement was $255 million 2014: $1,394 million.
The 2015balance mainly comprises Century Aluminum Century.
The 31 December 2015 carrying value of Century is $592 million 2014: $792 million, following an impairment charge of $162 million recognised in H2 2015 see note 5.
The 2014 balance comprised primarily Century and Lonmin plc, the latter being disposed by way of an in specie distribution in June 2015 see note 3.
Additions In June 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain terminal in northern Brazil for $115 million.
With this acquisition, Glencore now owns two key ports in the Northern corridor of Brazil which will give access to fast growing origination areas like Mato Grosso and Matopiba, enabling the Group to increase its marketing of corn and soya beans.
140 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information In May 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of an effective 25.05% economic interest in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Australia for $250 million.
The acquisition was effected through a jointly controlled entity owned 50:50 by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation.
Based on the contractual arrangement between Glencore and Sumitomo, the joint investment constitutes a joint arrangement subject to joint control by virtue of the shareholders agreement as defined under IFRS 11 as unanimous consent is required for all key decisions regarding the relevant activities of the joint investment.
As the investment has been structured through a separate legal entity with both Glencores and Sumitomos risks equating to their net investment in the entity, the investment is deemed to be a joint venture and therefore accounted for using the equity method required by IFRS 11.
Disposals Mainly relates to the in specie distribution of the stake in Lonmin plc see notes 3 and 17.
Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures Non-current assets 2,744 4,279 7,023 4,609 4,609 11,632 Current assets 595 951 1,546 1,144 1,144 2,690 Non-current liabilities 859 948 1,807 986 986 2,793 Current liabilities 202 286 488 273 273 761 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 150 133 283 166 166 449 1 Current financial liabilities 5 61 66 3 3 69 1 Non-current financial liabilities 167 167 75 75 242 Net assets 31 December 2015 2,278 3,996 6,274 4,494 4,494 10,768 Glencores ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,431 2,073 3,504 1,194 1,194 4,698 Carrying value 2,190 3,422 5,612 3,171 3,171 8,783 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2015, is set out below.
Total of material Total of material Total of material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2015 Revenue 1,859 2,080 3,939 1,991 1,991 5,930 Loss income for the year 187 411 224 166 166 390 Other comprehensive income 9 9 9 Total comprehensive loss income 187 411 224 157 157 381 Glencores share of dividends paid 53 206 259 110 110 369 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 557 721 1,278 586 586 1,864 1 Interest income 2 2 36 36 38 2 Interest expense 18 9 27 10 10 37 Income tax expense 178 233 411 54 54 465 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $37 million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $7 million.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 141 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 10.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures Non-current assets 2,838 4,181 7,019 4,918 4,918 11,937 Current assets 771 952 1,723 1,073 1,073 2,796 Non-current liabilities 959 634 1,593 1,006 1,006 2,599 Current liabilities 217 443 660 451 451 1,111 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 238 228 466 124 124 590 1 Current financial liabilities 9 270 279 2 2 281 1 Non-current financial liabilities 9 9 81 81 90 Net assets 31 December 2014 2,433 4,056 6,489 4,534 4,534 11,023 Glencores ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,494 2,121 3,615 1,213 1,213 4,828 Carrying value 2,305 3,490 5,795 3,208 3,208 9,003 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2014, is set out below.
Total of material Total of material Total of material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2014 Revenue 2,263 2,504 4,767 2,980 2,980 7,747 Loss income for the year 4 1,319 1,315 385 385 1,700 Other comprehensive income 8 8 8 Total comprehensive loss income 4 1,319 1,315 377 377 1,692 Glencores share of dividends paid 239 343 582 440 440 1,022 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 541 565 1,106 543 543 1,649 Interest income 1 1 1 12 Interest expense 17 2 19 8 8 27 Income tax expense credit 232 114 118 691 691 809 Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: US$ million 2015 2014 The Groups share of loss income 48 26 The Groups share of other comprehensive loss 22 23 The Groups share of total comprehensive loss income 70 3 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 2,554 3,271 Glencores share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint venture discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint ventures as at 31 December 2015 was $337 million 2014: $354 million.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $176 million 2014: $310 million.
142 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Other investments US$ million 2015 2014 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 407 895 OAO NK Russneft 685 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
95 149 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 40 223 Other 78 205 213 577 Total 1,305 1,472 Russneft In November 2015, Glencore and OAO NK Russneft Russneft effected a debt to equity conversion which resulted in Glencore exchanging its loan balance and investment in operating subsidiaries carried at $nil for a 46% interest in Russneft see note 11.
Although Glencore holds more than a 20% interest in Russneft, based on historical interactions, it was concluded that Glencore is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
As a result, the investment is accounted for as an Available for sale investment carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income.
ADVANCES AND LOANS US$ million 2015 2014 1 Loans to associates 436 548 Rehabilitation trust fund 152 327 Other non-current receivables and loans 2,417 3,722 Total 3,005 4,597 1 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2015 2014 Counterparty Russneft loans 984 1 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 1,004 1,456 Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL power advances 266 232 Chad State National Oil Company 544 426 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo 165 Other 438 624 Total 2,417 3,722 1 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The weighted average interest rate of the advances and loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
In December 2015, an impairment of $155 million was recognised reflecting non-performance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing in product supply and a recoverable value provision in respect of other advances and loans see note 5.
Russneft loans In November 2015, Glencore and Russneft effected a debt to equity conversion which resulted in Glencore exchanging its loan balance of $984 million and investments in operating subsidiaries carried at $nil for a 46% interest in Russneft.
The fair value of the equity received was determined to be $685 million, resulting in a $300 million impairment recognised upon settlement of the loan see note 5.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 143 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 11.
ADVANCES AND LOANS continued SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations will contribute $306 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2017.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2017.
The loans are being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company Glencore has provided a net $544 million 2014: $512 million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through future oil deliveries over seven years.
As at 31 December 2015, the advance is net of $905 million 2014: $1,023 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $544 million 2014: $426 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $nil 2014: $86 million is due within 12 months, such amounts included within Accounts receivable.
Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC In 2015, Glencore advanced a net $218 million to SNPC to be repaid through future oil deliveries over five years.
The advance is net of $522 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SNPC under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $165 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $53 million is due within 12 months and as such included within Accounts receivable.
INVENTORIES Inventories of $18,303 million 2014: $24,436 million comprise $10,928 million 2014: $16,297 million of inventories carried at fair value less costs of disposal and $7,375 million 2014: $8,139 million valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 27 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 19.
As at 31 December 2015, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $1,649million 2014: $1,707 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,607 million 2014: $1,558 million.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE US$ million 2015 2014 1 Trade receivables 10,175 14,466 1,2, 3 Trade advances and deposits 4,206 4,596 1 Associated companies 414 359 Other receivables 2,206 2,035 Total 17,001 21,456 1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
2 Includes advances net of $180 million provided by banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual production over the next 12 months.
3 In December 2015, impairments of $359 million were recognised reflecting non-performance of contractual terms and a recoverable value provision in respect of trade advances and deposits see note 5.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 27 days 2014: 27 days.
As at 31 December 2015, 6% 2014: 8% of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 5% 2014: 6% were greater than 60 days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
144 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below: US$ million 2015 2014 1 January 293 252 Released during the year 62 62 Charged during the year 80 168 Utilised during the year 42 65 31 December 269 293 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
The receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2015, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $2,205 million 2014: $2,631 million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,937 million 2014: $2,173 million.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS US$ million 2015 2014 Bank and cash on hand 2,059 2,093 Deposits and treasury bills 648 731 Total 2,707 2,824 As at 31 December 2015, $22 million 2014: $17 million was restricted.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$ million US$ million Authorised: 31 December 2015 and 2014 ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2014 13,278,405 133 54,777 Distributions paid see note 17 2,244 31 December 2014 ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 52,533 1 January 2015 13,278,405 133 52,533 Share issuance 1,307,795 13 2,431 Distributions paid see note 17 2,626 31 December 2015 ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 52,338 In September 2015, a total of 1,307,794,600 new ordinary shares in Glencore were placed at a price of 125 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $2.5 billion.
The new shares issued represented approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total Number Share Number Share Number Share of shares premium of shares premium of shares premium thousand US$ million thousand US$ million thousand US$ million Own shares: 1 January 2014 156,790 767 156,790 767 Own shares purchased during the year 143,278 758 7,000 37 150,278 795 Own shares disposed during the year 13,328 69 13,328 69 31 December 2014 143,278 758 150,462 735 293,740 1,493 1 January 2015 143,278 758 150,462 735 293,740 1,493 Own shares purchased during the year 58,050 240 28,843 41 86,893 281 Own shares transferred to satisfy employee share awards 9,869 50 9,869 50 Own shares disposed during the year 14,770 62 14,770 62 31 December 2015 191,459 948 174,404 764 365,863 1,712 Glencore Annual Report 2015 145 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 15.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued Own shares Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Companys previous share buy-back programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Orbis Trust the Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of previous business combinations.
The Trust also coordinates the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares are acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trustee is permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
The Trust has waived the right to receive distributions from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Other reserves Equity portion Net ownership Translation of Convertible Cash flow hedge Net unrealised changes in US$ million adjustment bonds reserve gain loss subsidiaries Other reserves Total 1 January 2014 1,317 89 356 844 10 2,418 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 846 846 Gain on cash flow hedges, netof tax 415 415 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 1 1 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 501 501 Equity portion of repaid convertible bond 89 89 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 29 29 31 December 2014 2,163 58 501 815 10 2,409 1 January 2015 2,163 58 501 815 10 2,409 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 1,727 1,727 Loss on cash flow hedges, netof tax 89 89 Loss on available for sale financial instruments 489 489 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 16 16 Foreign currency translation losses recycled to the statement of income 311 311 31 December 2015 3,579 31 12 831 10 4,419 146 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 16.
EARNINGS PER SHARE US$ million 2015 2014 Loss profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 4,964 2,308 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 13,317,970 13,098,766 Effect of dilution: 1 Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 52,579 1 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 13,151,345 Basic loss earnings per share US$ 0.37 0.18 1 Diluted loss earnings per share US$ 0.37 0.18 Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2 2013 as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: Headline earnings: US$ million 2015 2014 Loss profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 4,964 2,308 2 Net loss gain on disposals 1,061 790 Net loss on disposals non-controlling interest 31 Net gain loss on disposals tax 263 550 3 Impairments 6,692 1,101 Impairments non-controlling interest 2,611 99 Impairments tax 316 270 Headline loss earnings for the year 432 2,800 Headline loss earnings per share US$ 0.03 0.21 1 Diluted headline loss earnings per share US$ 0.03 0.21 1 In 2015, as both the result attributable to equity holders and to Headline results is a loss, the effect has not been presented as this would be anti-dilutive.
2 Comprises losses on disposals and investments of $994 million, loss from metal leak of $60 million and loss on vessel charter contract and net other expenses of $7 million see notes 3 and 4.
2014 comprises gains on disposal and investments of $715 million and gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment of $75 million.
3 Comprises impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments and non-current advances and loans see note 5.
DISTRIBUTIONS US$ million 2015 2014 Paid during the year: Final distribution for 2014 $0.12 per ordinary share 2013: $0.111 per ordinary share 1,551 1,457 Interim distribution for 2015 $0.06 per ordinary share 2014: $0.06 per ordinary share 777 787 In specie distribution of Groups 23.9% in Lonmin plc 298 Total 2,626 2,244 As announced on 7 September 2015, the final distribution for 2015 has been suspended.
The 2015 interim distribution was paid on 29 September 2015.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 147 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 18.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Number of Number of awards awards Expense Expense Number of Fair value at outstanding outstanding recognised recognised awards granted grant date 2015 2014 2015 2014 thousand US$ million thousand thousand US$ million US$ million Deferred Bonus Plan 2013 Series 4,958 24 3,717 2014 Series 3,633 20 2,455 3,633 20 2015 Series 15,634 35 15,634 35 Performance Share Plan 2012 Series 3,375 18 1,049 4 2013 Series 11,065 60 4,075 7,472 20 36 2014 Series 15,611 86 11,035 15,611 46 10 2015 Series 44,475 56 44,475 Total 77,674 31,482 101 70 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service conditions, however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including distributions paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated expense is recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular expense for performance bonuses.
Performance share plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in three or five equal tranches on 30 June, 31 December or 31 January of the years following the year of grant, as may be the case.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting.
Share-based awards assumed in previous business combinations Total options Weighted outstanding average exercise thousands price GBP 1 January 2014 155,161 3.74 Forfeited Lapsed 42 4.93 Exercised 6,557 1.71 31 December 2014 148,562 1 January 2015 148,562 3.83 Forfeited Lapsed Exercised 1,960 1.69 31 December 2015 146,602 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share-based awards was GBP2.89 2014: GBP3.42.
As at 31 December 2015 a total of 146,601,834 options 2014: 148,561,546 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 2014: GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.853 2014: GBP3.825.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2016 to February 2022 2014: March 2015 to February 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 2.8 years 2014: 3.4 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards, when exercised, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
148 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 19.
BORROWINGS US$ million Notes 2015 2014 Non-current borrowings Capital market notes 28,938 30,877 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 2,994 7,933 Finance lease obligations 29 376 425 Other bank loans 624 1,453 Total non-current borrowings 32,932 40,688 Current borrowings Secured inventory receivables facilities 12 13 3,544 3,731 U. S. commercial paper 15 813 Capital market notes 4,474 3,504 Finance lease obligations 29 88 51 1 Other bank loans 2,996 3,906 Total current borrowings 11,117 12,005 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facility In May 2015, Glencore signed new revolving credit facilities for a total amount of $15.25 billion.
These facilities refinanced earlier $15.3 billion of one-year and three-year revolving credit facilities signed in June 2014.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 40 to 55 basis points per annum.
The new and amended facilities comprise: a $8.45 billion 12 month revolving credit facility with a 12 month term-out option and 12 month extension option: and a $6.8 billion 5 year revolving credit facility with two 12 month extension options.
In February 2016, Glencore announced that it has signed a new Revolving Credit Facility RCF, which will ultimately refinance and replace the existing $8.45 billion facility.
In pre-syndication, $7.7 billion of commitments from 37 banks were signed into and in Q2 2016 the refinancing will be broadened via launch of general syndication to some 30 additional banks.
Consistent with the current facility, this new facility remains unsecured, containing a 12 month extension option and 12 month borrowers term-out option, thereby extending the final maturity to May 2018 see note 33.
U. S. commercial paper Glencore has in place a standalone U. S. commercial paper programme for $4,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&Ps and Moodys rating agencies.
The notes issued under this programme carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 397 days from the date of issue.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 35 to 70 basis points per annum.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 149 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 19.
US$ bonds In April 2015, Glencore issued in four tranches $2.25 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 3 year $500 million, 2.125% fixed coupon bonds: 3 year $250 million, LIBOR plus 1.06% floating rate bond: 5 year $1,000 million, 2.875% fixed coupon bonds: and 10 year $500 million, 4.0% fixed coupon bonds.
Japanese Yen bonds In June 2015, Glencore issued 7 year JPY 40 billion of 1.075% fixed coupon bonds.
In December 2015, Glencore converted JPY 30 billion of such bonds into new 7 year $250 million LIBOR plus 1.650% coupon bonds: the balance of JPY 10 billion of these bonds remains outstanding.
In October 2015, Glencore redeemed 1st call date its perpetual bonds with a nominal value of $350 million.
In Q4 2015, Glencore repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $564 million, comprising primarily 2016 and 2017 maturities.
Secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2015 2014 US$ LIBOR Syndicated committed metals inventory receivables facilities Jan Mar 2016 380 110 150 bps 350 435 US$ LIBOR Syndicated uncommitted metals inventory receivables facilities Jan 2016 2,910 50 70 150 bps 2,161 1,818 US$ LIBOR Syndicated uncommitted Oil receivables facilities Jan Oct 2016 550 70 bps 550 983 Syndicated uncommitted agricultural products inventory US$ LIBOR receivables facilities Jan Oct 2016 520 70 bps 483 495 Total 4,360 3,544 3,731 1 Since year-end, in the ordinary course of business, these maturities have been rolled extended as required.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 151 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 20.
DEFERRED INCOME Unfavourable US$ million Notes contracts Prepayment Total 1 January 2014 1,320 162 1,482 Utilised in the year 122 27 149 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 60 60 31 December 2014 1,138 135 1,273 Current 129 24 153 Non-current 1,009 111 1,120 1 January 2015 1,138 135 1,273 Additions 900 900 Utilised in the year 146 149 295 Disposals and loss of control of subsidiaries 24 212 212 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 127 127 31 December 2015 653 886 1,539 Current 53 34 87 Non-current 600 852 1,452 Unfavourable contracts In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2045 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayment In December 2015, effective 1 October 2015, Glencore entered into a long-term streaming agreement with Silver Wheaton Corporation Silver Wheaton, for the delivery of the equivalent of 33.75% of the silver produced by the Antamina mine Antamina until 140 million ounces of silver is delivered, at which time, the designated percentage reduces to 22.50% of the silver production from Antamina over the remaining life of mine.
In consideration, Silver Wheaton made an up-front advance payment of $900 million and pays an ongoing amount of 20% of the spot silver price for each ounce of silver delivered under the streaming agreement.
The arrangement has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment has been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the silver is delivered to Silver Wheaton at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction along with the ongoing cash payments.
An accretion expense, representing the time value of the upfront deposit on the deferred revenue balance, will also be recognised.
As at 31 December 2015, 1,340,000 ounces have been delivered under the contract.
152 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 21.
PROVISIONS Post-retirement employee Other employee Rehabilitation Onerous 1 US$ million benefits entitlements costs contracts Other Total 1 January 2014 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387 Provision utilised in the year 285 125 369 229 243 1,251 Accretion in the year 181 9 190 Assumed in business combination 10 4 14 Additional provision in the year 455 72 102 36 283 948 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 80 2 51 20 4 157 31 December 2014 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131 Current 86 129 361 576 Non-current 1,070 308 3,750 1,601 826 7,555 1 January 2015 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131 Provision utilised in the year 249 137 448 447 457 1,738 Accretion in the year 1786 184 Assumed in business combination 21 21 Disposals and cessation of control ofsubsidiaries 2 241 18 261 Additional provision in the year 102 52 302 189 268 309 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 118 2 118 11 249 31 December 2015 803 221 2,905 1,478 990 6,397 Current 89 155 230 474 Non-current 803 221 2,816 1,323 760 5,923 1 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
Post-retirement employee benefits The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $346 million 2014: $531 million and postretirement medical plan liabilities of $457 million 2014: $539 million, see note 22.
Other employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from two to in excess of 50 years with the majority of the costs expected to be incurred in the final years of the underlying operations.
The costs are discounted to the present value at operation specific rates ranging from 6% 12% 2014: 5.5% 13%.
Onerous contracts In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised a liability related to assumed contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision is released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 153 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 22.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, were $5,287 million and $6,011 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $4,344 million 2014: $5,083 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $199 million in 2015 2014: $235 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Company participates in a number of post-retirement medical plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
Almost all of the post-retirement medical plans in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit pension plans The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US.
Approximately 75% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Contributions to the Canadian plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal taxation rules.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Present value of Net liability for Post-retirement defined benefit Fair value of defined benefit US$ million medical plans obligation plan assets pension plans 1 January 2015 539 4,185 3,654 531 Current service cost 972 72 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 1 Settlement 183 177 6 Interest expense income 20 139 123 16 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 28 29 54 83 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 86 86 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 1 3 3 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 2 39 39 Gain loss from actuarial experience 5 10 10 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense 4 4 Actuarial gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4 36 86 122 Employer contributions 108 108 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the Company 24 10 10 Benefits paid from plan assets 217 217 Net cash outflow inflow 24 225 117 108 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 1 2 Exchange differences 82 545 509 36 Other 82 548 510 38 31 December 2015 457 3,405 3,059 346 1 See note 24.
154 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Defined benefit pension plans Present value of Net liability for Post-retirement defined benefit Fair value of defined benefit US$ million medical plans obligation plan assets pension plans 1 January 2014 584 4,059 3,663 396 Current service cost 10 71 71 Past service cost plan amendments 2 1 1 Settlement 40 26 14 Interest expense income 27 173 160 13 Total expense income recognised in consolidated statement of income 35 205 134 71 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 254 254 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 16 73 73 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 15 463 463 Gain loss from actuarial experience 10 12 12 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense 31 31 Actuarial gains losses recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 9 517 254 263 Employer contributions 164 164 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the Company 26 13 13 Benefits paid from plan assets 248 248 Net cash outflow inflow 26 259 95 164 Exchange differences 45 337 302 35 Other 45 337 302 35 31 December 2014 539 4,185 3,654 531 The Group expects to make a contribution of $116 million to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans during the next financial year.
The defined benefit obligation accrued to date in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the balance sheet and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Groups defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2015 does not exceed $195 million 2014: $205 million.
2015 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 395 62 457 of which: amounts owing to active members 121 21 142 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 274 41 315 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,534 871 3,405 of which: amounts owing to active members 571 457 1,028 of which: amounts owing to not active members 102 197 299 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,861 217 2,078 Fair value of plan assets 2,454 605 3,059 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2015 80 266 346 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 13 18 14 Glencore Annual Report 2015 155 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 22.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 2014 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 468 71 539 of which: amounts owing to active members 143 27 170 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 325 44 369 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,271 914 4,185 of which: amounts owing to active members 746 467 1,213 of which: amounts owing to not active members 142 217 359 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,383 230 2,613 Fair value of plan assets 3,026 628 3,654 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 245 286 531 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 13 The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a loss of $300 million 2014: gain of $112 million, mainly resulting from foreign exchange movements.
The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2015 2014 Cash and short-term investments 88 80 Fixed income 1,605 2,056 Equities 1,180 1,379 1 Other 186 139 Total 3,059 3,654 1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $58 million 2014: $60 million.
The fair value of plan assets includes none of Glencores own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term.
Glencore believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, inmost cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
156 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: Post-retirement medical plans Defined benefit pension plans 2015 2014 2015 2014 Discount rate 4.2% 4.2% 3.7% 3.7% Future salary increases 2.8% 2.9% 2.7% 2.9% Future pension increases 0.4% 0.4% Ultimate medical cost trend rate 4.3% 4.3% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at 31 December 2015, these tables imply expected future life expectancy, for employees aged 65, 19 to 24 years for males 2014: 16 to 24 and 23 to 26 years for females 2014: 20 to 26.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is set out below, assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
Increase decrease in pension obligation Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total Discount rate Increase by 100 basis points 59 402 461 Decrease by 100 basis points 67 485 552 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 45 45 Decrease by 100 basis points 42 42 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 36 36 Decrease by 100 basis points 30 30 Medical cost trend rate Increase by 100 basis points 57 57 Decrease by 100 basis points 50 50 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by 1 year 11 82 93 23.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE US$ million 2015 2014 Trade payables 19,424 22,448 Trade advances from buyers 1,684 1,479 Associated companies 467 473 Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,513 2,481 Total 24,088 26,881 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services.
Trade payables typically have maturities up to 90 days depending on the type of material and the geographic area in which the purchase transaction occurs and the agreed terms.
The carrying value of trade payables approximates fair value.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 157 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES 2015 Acquisitions In 2015, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Prokon Pflanzenl GmbH, subsequently renamed Glencore Magdeburg GmbH Magdeburg and Twin Rivers Technologies Enterprises fide Transformation fide Graines Olagineuses Du Qubec Inc. TRT.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition dates are detailed below: US$ million Magdeburg TRT Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 178 108 286 Deferred tax assets 39 39 178 147 325 Current assets Inventories 544 49 1 Accounts receivable 622 28 Other financial assets 13 4 Cash and cash equivalents 45 9 16 74 90 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 22 22 Provisions 21 21 43 43 Current liabilities Accounts payable 14 23 37 Other financial liabilities 3 5 8 17 28 45 Total fair value of net assets acquired 134 193 327 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 5 9 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 130 188 318 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Magdeburg In March 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Magdeburg for a cash consideration of $134 million.
The acquisition of Magdeburg, an integrated oilseeds crushing and biodiesel plant located in Germany, adds further value to and enlarges our crushing portfolio in Europe, allowing Glencore to further optimise around this business sector.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $15 million and an additional attributable loss of $2 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $161 million and $10 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
TRT In November 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in TRT for a cash consideration of $193 million.
TRT owns the largest oilseed crushing and refining plant in Quebec, Canada with a capacity of 1.05 million tonnes per year.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $237 million and an additional attributable loss of $20 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $65 million and $1 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
158 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2015 Disposals In 2015, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Tampakan and Falcondo.
Furthermore, upon Optimum Coal commencing business rescue proceedings, Glencore ceased having control over Optimum in August 2015.
As a result of such loss of control, Optimum is no longer accounted for as a subsidiary and has been deconsolidated see note 3.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: 1 US$ million Tampakan Falcondo Optimum Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 161 11 809 5 986 Intangible assets 712 712 Loans and advances 1 256 257 162 11 1,777 5 1,955 Current assets Inventories 45 39 12 96 Accounts receivable 21 12 34 12 79 Cash and cash equivalents 1 15 22 38 21 58 88 46 213 Non-controlling interest 14 243 257 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 142 277 419 Deferred income 150 150 Deferred tax liabilities 1 203 1 205 Provisions 8 110 137 255 150 111 767 1 1,029 Current liabilities Accounts payable 3 5 64 42 114 Deferred income 62 62 Provisions 6 6 3 5 132 42 182 Carrying value of net assets liabilities disposed 16 47 723 8 700 Less: Cash and cash equivalents received 208 40 2 250 Add: Foreign currency translation losses recycled to the statement of income 311 311 Net gain loss on disposal 192 87 1,034 6 761 Cash and cash equivalents received 208 40 2 250 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 1 15 22 38 Net cash received from disposal 208 39 15 20 212 1 Includes associated impairments of $152 million see note 3.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 159 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued 2014 Acquisitions In 2014, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Caracal Energy Inc Caracal, Zhairemsky GOK JSC Zhairemsky and other immaterial entities.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition dates are detailed below: US$ million Caracal Zhairemsky Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,799 351 27 2,177 Intangible assets 1 12 13 1 Advances and loans 1 1 Deferred tax assets 1 1 1,801 351 40 2,192 Current assets Inventories 98 17 1 Accounts receivable 86 8 20 114 Cash and cash equivalents 31 17 48 117 34 28 179 2 Non-controlling interest 8 8 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 52 52 Other financial liabilities 3 5 8 Provisions 1 13 14 1 68 5 74 Current liabilities Borrowings 161 161 Accounts payable 149 9 53 211 310 9 53 372 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,607 308 2 1,917 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 77 77 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 31 17 48 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,499 291 2 1,792 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
Caracal On 8 July 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal, an oil and gas exploration and development company with operations in the Republic of Chad, Africa, for a total consideration of $1,607 million.
This increased Glencores ownership from 13.2% to 100% and provides Glencore the ability to exercise control over Caracal.
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised.
The final fair value adjustments to the provisionally reported values relate to reclassifications within property, plant and equipment resulting from the refinement of acquisition date pricing forecasts and revisions to assumptions that existed at the acquisition date including corporate cost forecasts, oil quality adjustments and pipeline tariff costs see note 7.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $56 million and additional attributable loss of $25 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $101 million and $80 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
The acquisition of Caracal enlarged Glencores regional oil portfolio enabling the Group to establish its own African oil operational footprint, from which to seek additional regional commercial development opportunities, as they arise.
Zhairemsky On 11 December 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Zhairemsky GOK JSC, located in Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of $308 million.
The acquisition enhances and complements Glencores existing operations in Kazakhstan, including an expectation that the additional zinc lead resources will significantly increase Kazzincs weighted average own-source life of mine.
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised, with no adjustments to the previously reported provisional fair values.
160 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78 million and additional attributable loss of $2 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $6 million and $1 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
Other Other comprises primarily the acquisition of an additional 16.99% interest in Energia Austral, increasing Glencores ultimate ownership to 65.99%.
From the date of acquisition, 1 January 2014, the operations contributed $25 million and $15 million to Glencores revenue and attributable income, respectively.
2014 Disposals In 2014, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Las Bambas that was acquired as part of the Xstrata business combination in May 2013.
Other consists primarily of the disposal of Frieda River, a copper project in Papua New Guinea.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: US$ million Las Bambas Other Total Property, plant and equipment 89 89 Accounts receivable 9 9 Assets held for sale 6,884 6,884 Accounts payable 2 2 Liabilities held for sale 604 604 Non-controlling interest 16 16 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 6,280 80 6,360 Cash and cash equivalents received 6,449 33 6,482 Future consideration receivable 15 34 49 Total consideration 6,464 67 6,531 Net gain loss on disposal 184 13 171 25.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks except margin risk within its extensive and diversified industrial portfolio refer net present value at risk below to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Central to meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Glencores current credit ratings are Baa3 stable from Moodys and BBBstable from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives In September 2015, the Board determined that no cash distributions would be made in 2016, in an effort to preserve capital and investment grade credit ratings.
The Board remains focused on delivery of the Groups debt reduction target, and will consider the resumption of distributions to shareholders when it considers these have been realised.
The manner and timing of future distributions will be determined after consultation with shareholders.
Distributions are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually with the half-year results and the preliminary full-year results.
Distributions, when declared, will be paid in US dollars, although shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distributions in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the JSE will receive their distributions in South African Rand.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 161 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100 million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
The consolidated VaR limit of $100 million was not exceeded during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history for a one-day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Market risk VaR one-day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 Year-end position 18 39 Average during the year 35 36 High during the year 52 65 Low during the year 17 16 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead, coal, iron ore, oil natural gas and main risks in the agricultural products business segment grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
162 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 would decrease increase by $59 million 2014: $95 million.
Currency risk The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the US dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are overwhelmingly denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into US dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the US dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc, Sterling, Yen and Australian dollar denominated bonds see note 19.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2015 15,541 21 2,471 2020 Cross currency swap agreements 2014 15,762 15 1,727 2019 1 Refer to note 19 for details.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 1.9% 2014: 2.5% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 4.7% of its revenues over the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 3.5%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk including performance risk see below, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets see note 26.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 163 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Performance risk Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the future, tophysically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which doesnot fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter-term fixed price contract periods, inpart to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2014: $3 billion.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
As at 31 December 2015, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $15,155 million 2014: $9,620 million.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value of financial instruments The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate the fair values with the exception of $44,049 million 2014: $52,693 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2015 was $39,406 million 2014: $53,285 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
164 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2015 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 1,092 213 1,305 Advances and loans 3,005 3,005 Accounts receivable 17,001 17,001 Other financial assets see note 27 3,701 3,701 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,746 2,746 Total financial assets 20,006 1,092 6,660 27,758 Liabilities Borrowings 44,049 44,049 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 27 186 186 Accounts payable 24,088 24,088 Other financial liabilities see note 27 4,931 4,931 Total financial liabilities 68,137 5,117 73,254 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of $568 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $737 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried at cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
2014 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 895 577 1,472 Advances and loans 4,597 4,597 Accounts receivable 21,456 21,456 Other financial assets see note 27 4,036 4,036 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,855 2,855 Total financial assets 26,053 895 7,468 34,416 Liabilities Borrowings 52,693 52,693 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 27 980 980 Accounts payable 26,881 26,881 Other financial liabilities see note 27 3,956 3,956 Total financial liabilities 79,574 4,936 84,510 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Other investments of $1,354 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $118 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried at cost.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 165 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Total as under netting agreements under netting agreements presented in the Amounts consolidated not subject statement 2015 Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 6,164 4,282 1,882 406 494 982 1,819 3,701 1 Derivative liabilities 6,799 4,282 2,517 406 1,674 437 2,414 4,931 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Total as under netting agreements under netting agreements presented in the Amounts consolidated not subject statement 2014 Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 19,282 17,115 2,167 483 497 1,187 1,869 4,036 1 Derivative liabilities 19,022 17,115 1,906 483 924 499 2,050 3,956 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the measurement date: or Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly: or Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominantly from models that use broker quotes and applicable market-based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of certain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, itis possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
166 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Refer to notes 12 and 26 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Other financial assets 2015 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 889 246 1,135 Options 30 15 45 Swaps 112 556 668 Physical forwards 1,299 224 1,523 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 189 189 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 141 141 Total 1,031 2,446 224 3,701 2014 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 1,008 183 1,191 Options 21 27 1 49 Swaps 133 771 904 Physical forwards 21 1,101 339 1,461 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 158 158 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 2 271 273 Total 1,185 2,511 340 4,036 Other financial liabilities 2015 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 414 33 447 Options 40 4 1 45 Swaps 197 323 520 Physical forwards 1,156 205 1,361 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 2,196 2,196 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 3359 362 Current other financial liabilities 654 4,071 206 4,931 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 186 186 Non-current other financial liabilities 186 186 Total 654 4,071 392 5,117 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 167 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 27.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Other financial liabilities 2014 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 580 8 588 Options 199 12 40 251 Swaps 118 98 216 Physical forwards 4 893 264 1,161 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 1,281 1,281 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 459 459 Current other financial liabilities 901 2,751 304 3,956 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 295 295 2 Put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-current other financial liabilities 980 980 Total 901 2,751 1,284 4,936 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
2 The position related to a put option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda that was exercisable in two equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018.
In June 2015, an agreement was reached to cancel the put call option and, as such, the liability was released resulting in a corresponding increase in the associated non-controlling interest.
Neither party paid consideration to cancel the put call option.
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million forwards Options Other Level 3 1 January 2014 215 716 359 860 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 34 39 73 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 64 64 Realised 106 31 75 31 December 2014 75 724 295 944 1 January 2015 75 724 295 944 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 36 1 35 Cancellation of put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 109 109 Realised 92 39 53 31 December 2015 19 1 186 168 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
168 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2015 2014 Futures Level 1 Assets 889 1,008 Liabilities 414 580 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Futures Level 2 Assets 246 183 Liabilities 33 8 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 1 Assets 30 21 Liabilities 40 199 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 15 27 Liabilities 4 12 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 3 Assets 1 Liabilities 1 40 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, Significant unobservable inputs: including: Volatility: and Credit risk.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials move in symmetry with each other, e. g. a decrease in volatility leads to a decrease in credit risk, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 169 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 27.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2015 2014 Swaps Level 1 Assets 112 133 Liabilities 197 118 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 556 771 Liabilities 323 98 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 1 Assets 21 Liabilities 4 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 1,299 1,101 Liabilities 1,156 893 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-performance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 224 339 Liabilities 205 264 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Valuation of the Groups commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply & demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 50% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase decrease in one input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
170 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2015 2014 Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 189 158 Liabilities 2,196 1,281 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 1 Assets 2 Liabilities 3 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 141 271 Liabilities 359 459 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 186 295 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: and Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
Significant unobservable inputs: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
There are no reasonable changes in assumptions which would result in a material change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
Put option over non-controlling interest Level 3 Assets Liabilities 685 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: and Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology Significant unobservable inputs: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
There are no reasonable changes in assumptions which would result in amaterial change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
As described above, in June 2015, an agreement was reached to cancel the put option over the non-controlling interest, with nil consideration being paid by either party.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 171 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 28.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION US$ million 2015 2014 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 3 4 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 19 20 1 Audit-related assurance services 3 5 Total audit and related assurance fees 25 29 Corporate finance services 1 Taxation compliance services 3 2 Other taxation advisory services 2 2 Other assurance services 1 1 Other services 2 Total non-audit fees 6 8 Total professional fees 31 37 1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listed subsidiaries.
FUTURE COMMITMENTS Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31 December 2015, $1,088 million 2014: $2,497 million, of which 77% 2014: 80% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, asignificant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31 December 2015, $144 million 2014:$255 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 29% 2014: 23% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
As at 31 December 2015, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $894 million 2014: $1,371 million, of which $145 million 2014: $183 million are with associated companies.
60% 2014: 37% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next two years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
In addition, Glencore is required to post rehabilitation and pension guarantees in respect of these future obligations.
As at 31 December 2015, $18,027 million 2014: $16,307 million of such commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity or rehabilitation and pension obligation.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively $237 million and $279 million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Future net minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2015 2014 Within 1 year 143 142 Between 2 and 5 years 346 275 After 5 years 170 255 Total 659 672 Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments US$ million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Within 1 year 116 76 88 51 Between 1 and 5 years 267 236 193 173 After 5 years 277 280 183 252 Total minimum lease payments 660 592 464 476 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 196 116 Present value of minimum lease payments 464 476 464 476 172 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 30.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2015 was $nil 2014: $nil.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Tax audits Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 11, 13, and 23.
There have been noguarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In 2015, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted to$1,196 million 2014: $1,200 million and $3,562 million 2014: $3,178 million respectively.
Remuneration of key management personnel Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $10 million 2014: $10 million.
There were no other long-term benefits or share-based payments provided to key management personnel 2014: $nil.
Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 89.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 173 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 32.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: US$ million 2015 2014 Kazzinc 1,316 1,404 Koniambo 2,460 1 Optimum 271 Alumbrera 126 182 2 Mutanda 713 2 3 Other 394 1,079 Total 89 2,938 1 Deconsolidated during 2015 see note 24.
2 $685 million put option over non-controlling interest was cancelled in June 2015 see note 27.
3 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Alumbrera Mutanda 31 December 2015 Non-current assets 4,796 958 346 4,814 Current assets 872 337 399 440 Total assets 5,668 1,295 745 5,254 Non-current liabilities 975 8,878 241 2,028 Current liabilities 344 114 252 255 Total liabilities 1,319 8,992 493 2,283 Net assets 4,349 7,697 252 2,971 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,033 5,237 126 2,258 Non-controlling interests 1,316 2,460 126 713 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 50.0% 31.0% 2015 Revenue 2,244 503 1,315 Expenses 2,494 4,824 616 1,232 Net loss profit for the year 250 4,824 113 83 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 174 2,364 57 57 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 76 2,460 56 26 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive loss income for the year 250 4,824 113 83 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 591 138 330 Net cash outflow from investing activities 262 360 50 261 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 319 404 164 170 Total net cash inflow outflow 10 44 24 101 174 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda 31 December 2014 Non-current assets 5,085 1,755 458 4,747 Current assets 1,118 77 373 711 Total assets 6,203 1,832 831 5,458 Non-current liabilities 1,168 628 299 2,247 Current liabilities 402 346 167 322 Total liabilities 1,570 974 466 2,569 Net assets 4,633 858 365 2,889 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,229 587 183 2,887 Non-controlling interests 1,404 271 182 2 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0% 2014 Revenue 2,517 592 1,037 1,604 Expenses 2,552 653 943 1,259 Net loss profit for the year 35 61 94 345 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 25 41 47 238 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 10 20 47 107 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive loss income for the year 35 61 94 345 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 144 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 232 47 235 484 Net cash outflow from investing activities 714 100 59 241 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 460 141 166 128 Total net cash outflow inflow 22 6 10 115 33.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS In February 2016, Glencore announced that a long-term streaming agreement has been entered into with Franco-Nevada Corporation, for delivery of gold and silver calculated by reference to copper produced at the Antapaccay mine, located in Peru.
Franco-Nevada will make an advance payment of $500 million upon closing of the transaction.
In return, Glencore will deliver gold and silver by reference to copper production: 300 ounces of gold per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate up until 630,000 ounces of gold have been delivered and 30% of gold production thereafter: and 4,700 ounces of silver per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate up until 10,000,000 ounces of silver have been delivered and 30% of silver production thereafter.
Franco-Nevada will make ongoing payments of 20% of the spot gold and silver price per ounce delivered which will increase to 30% of the respective spot prices after 750,000 ounces of gold and 12,800,000 ounces of silver have been delivered under the contact.
Consistent with the current facility, this new facility remains unsecured, containing a 12 month extension option and 12 month borrowers term-out option, thereby extending the final maturity to May 2018.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 175 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 34.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2015 2014 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals Allied Alumina Inc. Sherwin USA 100.0 100.0 Alumina production 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Sagittarius Mines Inc Tampakan Philippines 0.0 62.5 Copper production 2 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 75.3 75.3 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 69.0 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 66.6 Hydroelectric project African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 97.5 88.2 Iron Ore production Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Falconbridge Dominican S. A. Falcondo Dominican Rep. 0.0 85.3 Nickel production 3 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Eland Platinum Mines Pty Limited South Africa 74.0 74.0 Platinum production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 90.0 90.0 Zinc production Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
TO and principal place of business is DRC.
3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
176 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2015 2014 Main activity Metals and minerals continued AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation Pty Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production Energy products Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 78.0 78.0 Coal production Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production 4 Optimum Coal Holdings Pty Limited South Africa 67.6 67.6 Coal production 5 Shanduka Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production 6 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 48.7 48.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Glencore Exploration Cameroon Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Petrochad Mangara Limited Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration production Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Oil storage and bunkering Agricultural products Glencore Magdeburg GmbH Germany 100.0 0.0 Biofuel production Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Biofuel production Moreno Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie Sp.
z. o. o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Viterra Group incl.
TRT Canada Australia 100.0 100.0 Grain handling Glencane Bioenergia S. A. Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane ethanol production Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo.
Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling 4 Although Glencore holds 67.6% of the voting rights in Optimum, it has not been able to exercise control since August 2015, see note 3.
5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 177 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 34.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2015 2014 Main activity Other operating and finance Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Operations Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Europe S. A. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Grain B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating 7 Principal joint ventures 8 Clermont Coal Mines Limited Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 44.0 44.0 Iron Ore production 9 Principal joint operations Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal exploration Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia 80.0 80.0 Coal production Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production 7 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
8 The Groups effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
9 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
178 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2015 2014 Main activity Principal joint operations continued ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 37.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates Renova S. A. Argentina 50.0 50.0 Biofuel production Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 29.7 29.7 Coal terminal Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.4 28.6 Copper production 10 Century Aluminum Company USA 47.5 46.5 Diversified production Terminal fide Gros Ponta da Montanha Barcarena Brazil 49.9 0.0 Grain terminal 11 Russneft Group Russia 0.0 40.0 49.0 Oil production 12 Lonmin plc UK 0.0 24.5 Platinum production Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production 11 OAO NK Russneft Russia 46.0 0.0 Oil production Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production 10 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% 2014: 41.8% voting interest and 4.6% non-voting interest 2014: 4.7%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
11 In November 2015, Glencore effected the debt to equity conversion with respect to Russneft, see notes 10 and 11.
Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
12 In June 2015, Glencore completed an in specie distribution of the stake in Lonmin plc, see note 3.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 179 Additional information Additional information In this section 181 Glossary 185 Production by quarter Q4 2014 to Q4 2015 192 Resources and reserves 201 Shareholder information 202 Forward looking statements 180 Glencore Annual Report 2015
