STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 95 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Notes to the Group Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2015 1.
Reporting entity Genus plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
Its registered office is Matrix House, Basing View, Basingstoke, Hampshire RG21 4DZ.
The Group Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
We have used the equity method to account for the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Genus at a Glance on pages 2 and 3 explains the Groups operations and principal activities.
Basis of preparation We have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Unless otherwise stated, we have consistently applied the significant accounting policies set out below to all periods presented in these Group Financial Statements.
We reclassified certain comparative amounts in 2014, to conform to the current years presentation.
Functional and presentation currency We present the Group Financial Statements in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
All financial information presented in Sterling has been rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Basis of measurement We prepare the Group Financial Statements under the historical cost convention, except for our biological assets and derivative financial instruments.
In accordance with IFRS, we measure: biological assets at fair value less point-of-sale costs, which represent the costs of distribution and selling expenses: and derivative financial instruments at fair value.
Use of estimates Preparing financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect our application of accounting policies and our reported assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Our actual results may differ from these estimates.
We review our estimates and underlying assumptions on an ongoing basis, and recognise revisions to accounting estimates in the period in which we revise the estimate and in any future periods affected.
Note 4 provides information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and the critical judgements we made in applying accounting policies that have the most effect on the amounts we recognised in the financial statements.
Going concern After reviewing the available information including the Groups business plans and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
At 30 June 2015 the Group had net debt of 71.8m 2014: 63.9m and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 51.1m.
The Groups credit facilities at the balance sheet date comprised a 65m multi-currency revolving credit facility, a US$100m revolving credit facility and an amortising US$15m term loan, repayable in instalments by 15 September 2017.
We do not expect the financial covenants on these facilities to prevent the Group making further use of the facilities if required.
This, together with the maturity profile of debt, gives the Directors confidence that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business despite current uncertainties in the economic environment.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities the Group controls.
We have control when we have the power to govern the entitys financial and operating policies, so we benefit from its activities.
In assessing control, we take into account potential voting rights that we can currently exercise or convert.
We fully consolidate the results of subsidiaries we acquire from the date that control transfers to the Group.
We cease consolidating the results of subsidiaries we sell from the date that control passes.
Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The Group Financial Statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date it ceases.
When our share of losses exceeds our interest in an associate, we reduce the carrying amount to nil and stop recognising further losses, except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on an associates behalf.
Joint ventures are entities over whose activities we have joint control, under a contractual agreement.
The Group Financial Statements include the Groups share of profit or loss arising from joint ventures.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, we eliminate intra-Group balances and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment, to the extent of our interest in the investee.
We eliminate unrealised losses in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 96 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 2.
Basis of preparation continued Non-GAAP measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit before tax from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per share exclude the net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, exceptional items and other gains or losses.
We believe these non-GAAP measures provide shareholders with useful information about the Groups trading performance.
The reconciliation between operating profit from continuing operations and adjusted operating profit from continuing operations is shown on the face of the Group Income Statement.
Foreign currencies We record foreign currency transactions in the relevant Group entitys functional currency, at the exchange rate on the transaction date.
At each balance sheet date, we retranslate monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
We recognise the foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation in the Group Income Statement.
When non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency, we translate them at the exchange rate at the transaction date.
When non-monetary assets and liabilities are stated at fair value in a foreign currency, we translate them at the prevailing exchange rate on the date we determined the fair value.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling at the prevailing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
We translate these operations revenues and expenses using an average rate for the period.
When exchange differences arise from translating foreign operations into Sterling, or from the fair value movement of related effective hedges, we take them to the foreign currency translation reserve.
When we dispose of the foreign operation, we release these differences to the income statement.
Exchange movements on inter-company loans designated as long-term funding are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, together with any related taxation.
Significant accounting policies Business combinations We use the purchase method to account for all business combinations.
The cost of acquisition is the aggregate of the fair value at the date of exchange of assets we give, liabilities we incur or assume, and equity instruments we issue in exchange for control of the acquiree.
We recognise acquisition related costs in the profit and loss as we incur them.
We recognise the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, which meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The exceptions are non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which we recognise and measure at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill When we acquire a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the goodwill arising is the excess of the acquisition cost, excluding transaction costs, over our interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Identifiable assets include intangible assets which could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights, regardless of whether those rights are separable.
We state goodwill at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
We allocate goodwill to cash-generating units, which are the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
We do not amortise goodwill but we do test it annually for impairment.
For associates, we include the carrying amount of goodwill in the carrying amount of our investment in the associate.
IAS 21 requires us to treat the following as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity rather than of the acquiring entity: goodwill arising on acquisition of a foreign operation: and any fair value adjustments we make on acquisition to the carrying amounts of the acquirees assets and liabilities.
We therefore express them in the foreign operations functional currency and retranslate them at the balance sheet date.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 97 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Research and development We undertake research with the aim of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge, and recognise this expenditure in the income statement as we incur it.
The Group constantly monitors its research activities.
When research projects achieve technical feasibility and are commercially viable, our policy is to capitalise further development costs in accordance with IAS 38.
Our development activities include developing and maintaining our porcine genetic nucleus herd and our bovine pre-stud herds.
We do not capitalise development expenditure separately for these herds, as their fair value is included in the fair value of the Groups biological assets, in accordance with IAS 41.
We capitalise other development costs within intangible assets when the criteria of IAS 38 are met.
We disclose the costs of research and herd development activities, as required by IAS 38.
Exceptional items The Group presents items as exceptional when the Directors believe them to be exceptional because of their size or incidence.
Intangible assets Intangible assets that we have acquired in a business combination since 1 April 2005 are identified and recognised separately from goodwill, where they meet the definition of an intangible asset and we can reliably measure their fair values.
Their cost is their fair value at the acquisition date.
After their initial recognition, we report these intangible assets at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
This is the same basis as for intangible assets acquired separately.
The estimated useful lives for intangible assets are as follows: Software 2 to 10 years Porcine and bovine genetics technology 20 years Multiplier contracts 15 years Customer relationships 15 to 17 years Intangible assets acquired separately We carry intangible assets acquired other than through a business combination at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
We charge amortisation on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, and review the useful life and amortisation method at the end of each financial year, accounting for the effect of any changes in estimate on a prospective basis.
Impairment We review the carrying amounts of our tangible and intangible assets at each balance sheet date, to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any indication exists, we estimate the assets recoverable amount.
For goodwill, and tangible and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, we estimate the recoverable amount at each balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, we discount the estimated future cash flows to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.8% 2014: 11.1%, which is derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For some countries we add a premium to this rate, to reflect the risk attributable to that country.
If the asset does not generate largely independent cash inflows, we determine the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit CGU that the asset belongs to.
We recognise an impairment loss in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
When we recognise an impairment loss in respect of a CGU, we first allocate it to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to CGUs, and then apply any remaining loss to reduce the carrying amount of the units other assets on a pro rata basis.
Reversals of impairment We reverse an impairment loss in respect of assets other than goodwill when the impairment loss may no longer exist and we have changed the estimates we used to determine the recoverable amount.
We only reverse an impairment loss to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount it would have had, net of depreciation or amortisation, if we had not recognised the impairment loss.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 98 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Biological assets and inventories The Groups principal activity during the period was the global application of quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding.
We use these techniques to identify and select animals with the genes responsible for superior milk and meat, high health and performance traits.
We sell breeding animals and semen to customers, who use them to produce offspring which yield greater production efficiency, milk and meat quality, for the global dairy and meat supply chain.
In bovine, we use research and development to identify genetically superior bulls in a number of breeds, primarily the Holstein dairy breed.
Each selected bull has its performance measured against its peers, by using genomic evaluations and progeny testing of its daughters performance.
We collect and freeze semen from the best bulls, to satisfy our customers demand.
Farmers use semen from dairy breeds to breed replacement milking stock.
They use the semen we sell from beef breeds in either specialist beef breeding herds, for multiplying breeding bulls for use in natural service, or on dairy cows to produce animals to be reared for meat.
We hold our bovine biological assets for long-term internal use and classify them as non-current assets.
We transfer bull semen to inventory at its fair value at the point of harvest, which becomes its deemed cost under IAS 2.
We state our inventories at the lower of this deemed cost and net realisable value.
Sorting semen is a production process rather than a biological process.
As a result, we transfer semen inventory into sexed semen production at its fair value at the point of harvest, less the cost to sell, and it becomes a component of the production process.
We carry sexed semen in finished goods at production cost.
In porcine, we maintain and develop a central breeding stock the nucleus herd, to provide genetically superior animals.
These genetics help make farmers and food processors more profitable, by increasing their output of consistently highquality products, which yield higher value.
So we can capitalise on our intellectual property, we outsource the vast majority of our pig production to our global multiplier network.
We sell the offspring or semen we obtain from animals in the nucleus herd to customers for use in commercial farming.
Pig sales generally occur in one of two ways: upfront and royalty.
Under upfront sales, we receive the full fair value of the animal at point we transfer it to the customer.
Under royalty sales, the pig is regarded as comprising two separately identifiable components: its carcass and its genetic potential.
We receive the initial consideration, which is approximately the animals carcass value, at the point we transfer the pig to the customer.
We retain our interest in the pigs genetic potential and receive royalties for the customers use of this genetic potential.
The breeding animal biological assets we own, and our retained interest in the biological assets we have sold under royalty contracts, are recognised and measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
We recognise changes in fair value in the income statement, within operating profit for the period.
We classify the porcine biological assets we are using as breeding animals as non-current assets and carry them at fair value.
The porcine biological assets we are holding for resale, which are the offspring of the breeding herd, are carried at fair value and classified as current assets.
We split our retained interest in the genetics from royalty sales between current and non-current assets, based on the remaining expected life of the animals.
Determination of fair values biological assets IAS 41 Agriculture requires us to show the carrying value of biological assets in the Group Balance Sheet.
We determine this carrying value according to IAS 41s provisions and show the net valuation movement in the income statement.
There are important differences in how we value our bovine and porcine assets, as explained below.
Bovine we base the fair value of proven bulls, bulls with a genomic evaluation and bulls on test, on the net cash flows we expect to receive from selling their semen, discounted at a current market-determined pre-tax rate.
Proven bulls are those we have evaluated and whose semen we actively market.
Genomic bulls are those we market on their estimated genetic value.
We adjust the fair value of the bovine herd and semen inventory we manage where a third party has a share in semen sales from a particular bull.
The significant assumptions determining the fair values are the expected future demand for semen, estimated production value, each bulls expected marketable life and, for bulls on test, the percentage whose production we expect to actively market.
In assessing the sales price, we use independent statistical data for the bulls.
This data is produced three times a year in all our major markets.
In addition, we estimate which markets we will sell the semen in, as well as domestic and export prices.
Bulls that have not yet entered our testing programme have a fair value equivalent to their acquisition and rearing costs.
Porcine the fair values of porcine biological assets includes the animals we own entirely and our retained interest in the genetics of animals we have sold under royalty arrangements.
The fair value of animals we own is calculated using the animals average live weights, plus a premium where we believe that their genetics make them saleable.
We base the live weight value and the genetic premium on recent transaction prices we have achieved.
The significant assumptions in determining fair values are the breeding animals expected life, the percentage of production animals that are saleable as breeding animals, and the expected sales prices.
For our retained interest in the genetics of animals sold under royalty contracts, we base the initial fair value on the fair values we achieved in recent direct sales of similar animals, less the amount we received upfront for the carcass element.
We then remeasure the fair value of our retained interest at each reporting date.
The significant assumption in determining the fair value of the retained interest is the animals expected life.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 99 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION We value the pigs in our pure line herds, which are the repository of our proprietary genetics, as a single unit of account.
We do this using a discounted cash flow model, applied to the herds future outputs at current prices.
The significant assumptions we make are the number of future generations attributable to the current herds, the fair value prices we achieve on sales, the animals expected useful lifespan and productivity, and the discount rate.
Non-recognition of porcine multiplier contracts where no contractual interest is retained by the Group To manage commercial risk, a very large part of our porcine business model involves selling pigs to farmers multipliers who produce piglets on farms we neither manage nor control.
We have the option, but not the obligation, to buy the offspring at slaughter market value plus a premium.
Because the offspring have superior genetics, we can then sell them to other farmers at a premium.
We do not recognise the right to purchase offspring on the balance sheet, as we enter into the contracts and continue to hold them for the purpose of receiving non-financial items the offspring, in accordance with our expected purchase requirements.
This means the option is outside the scope of IAS 39.
We do not recognise the offspring as biological assets under IAS 41, as we do not own or control them.
Property, plant and equipment We state property, plant and equipment at cost, together with any directly attributable expenses of acquisition, or at their latest valuation, less depreciation and any impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, we account for them separately.
We charge depreciation to the income statement on a straight-line basis, over the estimated useful lives of each part of an asset.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 15 years Leasehold buildings over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years We do not depreciate land and assets not available for use.
Trade and other receivables We state trade and other receivables at their nominal amount less any impairment losses.
If there is a material difference between the nominal amount and the present value, we state the trade or other receivable at its present value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form an integral part of our cash management.
We only include them in cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings We initially recognise interest-bearing loans and borrowings at their fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
After this initial recognition, we state them at amortised cost and recognise any difference between the cost and redemption value in the income statement over the borrowings expected life, on an effective interest rate basis.
Provisions We recognise a provision in the balance sheet when an event results in the Group having a current legal or constructive obligation, and it is probable that we will have to settle the obligation through an outflow of economic benefits.
If the effect is material, we discount provisions to their present value.
Revenue Revenue is the value of sales and royalties receivable from customers, net of trade discounts and value added tax.
The principal components of the Groups revenue and their respective accounting treatments are: Revenue from the sale of bovine and porcine semen, porcine breeding animals and ancillary products, which we recognise when risks and rewards transfer to the customer.
This is either when we ship to customers or on delivery, depending on the terms of sale.
Royalties, which we recognise when receivable.
We receive royalty payments from certain porcine customers based on key performance variables, such as the number of pigs born per litter, the number of litters born per sow and the average slaughter weight of the animals born.
Revenue from consulting and other services, which represent the amounts we charged for services we provided during the year, including recoverable expenses but excluding value added tax.
We recognise services provided but not yet billed as revenue, based on a fair value assessment of the work we have delivered and our contractual right to receive payment.
Where unbilled revenue is contingent on a future event, we do not recognise any revenue until the event occurs.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 100 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases We classify leases as finance leases whenever the lease terms transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to us.
All other leases are operating leases.
We recognise the assets we hold under finance leases at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each of which we determine at the start of the lease.
We include our corresponding liability in the balance sheet, as a finance lease obligation.
We apportion lease payments between finance charges and a reduction in our lease obligation, so we achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining liability.
We recognise finance charges directly in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case we capitalise them in accordance with our general policy on borrowing costs see below.
For operating leases, we charge the rentals payable, and any incentives we receive to enter into an operating lease, to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance costs We recognise interest income and interest payable in the income statement as they accrue.
We recognise dividend income in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
Finance costs that are directly attributable to constructing a qualifying asset are added to the assets cost, until the asset is substantially ready for its intended use or sale.
We recognise other borrowing costs in the income statement in the period in which we incur them.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
We recognise tax in the income statement, unless: it relates to items we have recognised directly in equity, in which case we recognise it in equity: or it arises as a fair value adjustment in a business combination.
We provide for current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, at the amounts we expect to pay or recover, using the tax rates and the laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is tax we expect to pay or recover due to differences between the carrying amounts of our assets and liabilities in our financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in calculating our taxable profit.
We account for deferred tax using the balance sheet liability method.
We generally recognise deferred tax liabilities for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets to the extent that we will probably have taxable profits to utilise deductible temporary differences against.
We do not recognise these assets and liabilities if the temporary difference arises from: our initial recognition of goodwill: or our initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither our taxable profit nor our accounting profit.
We recognise deferred tax liabilities for taxable temporary differences arising on our investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where we can control the reversal of the temporary difference, and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
We calculate deferred tax at the tax rates we expect to apply in the period when we settle the liability or realise the asset.
We charge or credit deferred tax in the income statement, except when it relates to items we have charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, we recognise the fair value of share awards and options granted as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity.
We measure the fair value at the grant date and spread it over the vesting period of each option.
We use a binomial valuation model to measure the fair value of options, and a Black-Scholes valuation model to measure the fair value of share awards.
We adjust the amount we recognise as an expense, to reflect the estimated performance against non-market related conditions and the number of share awards and options that actually vest at the end of the vesting period.
Treasury shares We include the transactions, assets and liabilities of the Group-sponsored Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of the Companys shares are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 101 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution pension schemes A number of our employees are members of defined contribution pension schemes.
We charge contributions to the income statement as they become payable under the scheme rules.
We show differences between the contributions payable and the amount we have paid as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The schemes assets are held separately from those of the Group.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for some of its employees.
These schemes are closed to new members.
We calculate our net obligation separately for each scheme, by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned, in return for their service to date.
We discount that benefit to determine its present value, and deduct the fair value of the plans assets at bid price.
The liability discount rate we use is the market yield at the balance sheet date on high-quality corporate bonds, with terms to maturity approximating our pension liabilities.
Qualified actuaries perform the calculations, using the projected unit market method.
We recognise actuarial gains and losses directly into equity in the period in which they occur, through the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
Actuarial gains and losses include the difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets and experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities.
We recognise pension costs evenly over the service lives of the employees concerned.
We allocate any difference between the actuarial value of assets and the actuarial value of liabilities over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
The retirement benefit obligations referred to in note 28 include those relating to the Milk Pension defined benefit scheme.
Genus and the other participating employers are jointly and severally liable for the schemes obligations.
We account for our section of the scheme and our share of any orphan assets and liabilities, and provide for any amounts we believe we will have to pay under our joint and several liability.
The joint and several liability also means we have a contingent liability for the schemes obligations that we have not accounted for.
Under the joint and several liability, we initially recognise any changes in our share of orphan assets and liabilities in the income statement.
After this initial recognition, any actuarial gains and losses in the orphan assets and liabilities are recognised directly into equity through the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in the period in which they occur.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk, forward exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange risk and forward commodity contracts to manage commodity price risk.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that we would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair values of forward exchange contracts and forward commodity contracts are their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, which is the present value of the quoted forward price.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as hedging the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, we recognise the effective part of any gain or loss on the instrument in equity, in the hedging reserve.
We recognise any ineffective portion of the hedge immediately in the Group Income Statement.
If we hedge a forecast transaction that subsequently results in our recognising a financial asset or liability, we recycle the associated gains and losses that we had recognised in equity in the Group Income Statement.
We do this in the same period or periods that the asset or liability affects the Group Income Statement, which are the periods when we recognise the interest income or expense.
If we expect a hedged forecast transaction to occur but the hedging instrument has expired, been sold, terminated or exercised, or we have revoked the designation of the hedge relationship, then the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and we recognise it in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If we no longer expect the hedged transaction to take place, we immediately recognise in the Group Income Statement the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity.
Net investment hedges Where we have designated a derivative financial instrument as hedging the variability of the net assets of an overseas subsidiary, which arises from the spot or forward exchange rate translation risk associated with the subsidiarys functional currency, we recognise the effective part of any gain or loss on the instrument directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or we revoke designation of the hedge relationship, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity until we dispose of the investment it relates to.
We only apply net investment hedge accounting in the Group Financial Statements.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 102 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 3.
Significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations The following new standards and interpretation have been adopted in the current period: Improvements to IFRS 20102012 cycle: Improvements to IFRS 20112013 cycle: IFRIC 21 Levies: and Amendments to Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IAS 32, Investment Entities IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, Recoverable Amounts Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets IAS 36, Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting IAS 39, Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IAS 19.
There has been no significant impact on the results or disclosures for the current period from the adoption of these new standards and interpretations.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these Group Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in preparing these Group Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Response: and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimate and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Determination of the fair value of biological assets Determining the fair values of our bovine and porcine biological assets requires significant judgement and assumptions.
Bovine: The key judgements are in respect of the forecast sales volumes, the expected unit prices, the animals useful lifespan and the discount rate we apply.
Porcine: The key judgements and assumptions are in respect of the animals useful lifespan, the proportion that go to slaughter, the mix of boars and gilts and, in the case of the animals in the pure line herds, the number of future generations attributable to the current herds, the fair value prices achieved on sales, the animals expected useful lifespan and productivity, and the discount rate we apply.
Fair value of assets and liabilities on business combinations The Groups accounting policy on the acquisition of subsidiaries is to determine the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired with the fair value of any consideration in excess of this amount representing goodwill.
In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the use of significant judgement and assumptions with respect to estimated future cash flows and unprovided liabilities and commitments, particularly to tax, are often involved.
The determination of the useful life of intangible assets, particularly on those arising on acquisition, involves the exercise of management judgement.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets Determining whether goodwill, intangible and tangible assets are impaired requires us to consider any specific impairment indicators and to estimate the value in use of the cash-generating units to which we have allocated goodwill, intangible and tangible assets.
The value in use calculation requires us to estimate the future cash flows arising from the cash-generating unit and the appropriate discount rate, in order to calculate present value.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 103 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Recognition of deferred tax assets In recognising income tax assets and liabilities, we estimate the likely decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose tax treatment is uncertain.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, we also make judgements about our likely future taxable profits.
When the final outcome of such matters, including the recognition of deferred tax assets or tax losses, is different or expected to be different from our previous assessments, we record a change to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which we make the determination.
Defined benefit pension scheme Amounts recorded in the financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are also based on significant estimates and judgement.
Details of the estimates and judgements we made in calculating these transactions are contained in note 28.
These include estimates and judgements about the extent to which we should provide for any amounts that might become payable under our joint and several liability in respect of the Milk Pension Fund.
Sharebased payments Amounts recorded in the financial statements in respect of share-based payments are also based on significant estimates and judgement.
Details of the estimates and judgements we made in calculating these transactions are contained in note 29.
Segmental information The Group presents its segmental information on the basis that the chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for assessing our business performance and allocating resources.
Our business is not highly seasonal and our customer base is diversified, with no individual customer generating more than 2% of revenue.
Revenue 2015 2014 m m Genus PIC 175.5 152.8 Genus ABS 167.8 157.4 Genus Asia 41.4 46.5 Research and Development Research Porcine Product Development 13.8 15.5 Bovine Product Development 13.8 15.5 398.5 372.2 Operating profit by segment is set out below and reconciled to the Groups adjusted operating profit.
A reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit for the year is shown on the Group Income Statement.
Operating profit 2015 2014 m m Genus PIC 57.2 49.9 Genus ABS 24.0 24.3 Genus Asia 5.7 6.8 Research and Development Research 4.6 3.6 Porcine Product Development 11.6 12.5 Bovine Product Development 12.4 11.6 28.6 27.7 Segment operating profit 58.3 53.3 Central 11.1 10.4 Adjusted operating profit 47.2 42.9 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 104 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 5.
Note 7 provides details of these exceptional items.
We consider share-based payments on a Group-wide basis and do not allocate them to reportable segments.
Geographical information The Groups revenue by geographical segments is analysed below: Revenue 2015 2014 m m North America 181.2 153.7 Latin America 59.0 50.2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 116.9 121.8 Asia 41.4 46.5 398.5 372.2 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 105 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Non-current assets excluding deferred taxation and financial instruments 2015 2014 m m North America 306.3 261.2 Latin America 51.2 45.2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 85.0 84.8 Asia 14.0 14.4 456.5 405.6 6.
Revenue 2015 2014 m m Sale of animals, semen and associated products and services 314.4 297.7 Royalties 77.1 67.1 Consulting services 7.0 7.4 398.5 372.2 Interest income see note 10 0.2 0.2 398.7 372.4 7.
Exceptional items Operating expenses income: 2015 2014 m m Acquisition and integration 1.4 1.8 Legal fees 2.8 0.6 Other including restructuring 1.3 0.4 Pension related 0.4 5.1 2.0 During the period, 1.4m of expenses were incurred in relation to the acquisition and integration, principally in relation to Birchwood Genetics, Inc. and In Vitro Brasil S. A. of 0.3m and 0.9m, respectively.
Legal fees of 2.8m 2014: 0.6m related to an action by ABS Global, Inc. ABS against Inguran, LLC aka Sexing Technologies ST. On 14 July 2014, ABS, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, launched a legal action against ST, in the US District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin alleging, among other matters, that ST: i have a monopoly in the processing of sexed bovine semen in the US: and ii unlawfully maintain this monopoly through anticompetitive contractual provisions and the repeated acquisition of exclusive patent rights related to semen processing.
The legal action aims to remove these barriers and allow free and fair competition in the sexed bovine semen processing market ABS Action.
On the same date, ABS also filed an Inter-Partes Review application IPR challenging the validity of one of the STs group patents, US Patent No.
7,195,920 the 920 patent before the US Patent Office.
Subsequently, ABS also filed IPRs challenging the validity of STs group patents US Patent No.
7,820,425 the 425 patent and US Patent No.
On 7 November 2014, ST filed its Answer and Counterclaim to the ABS Action, denying any anticompetitive activities, and alleging, among other matters: i that ABS fraudulently induced ST to enter into the parties semen sorting agreement: ii that the Company and ABS repudiated and breached the agreement: and iii that the Company and ABS have infringed the 987 patent.
On 13 January 2015 and 15 April 2015 respectively, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board PTAB ruled that ABS had demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on its assertion that relevant claims of the 920 patent and the 425 patent were invalid, and ordered the institution of a trial.
On 31 March 2015, the Court in Wisconsin, among other matters: i denied STs motion to transfer the ABS Action to Texas, confirming that Wisconsin was the appropriate venue: ii denied STs partial motion to dismiss the ABS Action: and iii permitted XY Inc. XY, a subsidiary of ST, to join the litigation.
Subsequently, a revised timetable for the ABS Action was established, and the trial is now scheduled to commence on 1 August 2016.
On 6 May 2015 XY filed an Answer and Counterclaim denying the anti-competitive activities and alleging, among other matters, infringement of the 920 patent and the 425 patent by both ABS and the Company.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 106 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 7.
Exceptional items continued On 29 April 2015, the PTAB ruled that ABS had not demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on its assertion that relevant claims of the 987 patent were invalid and declined to order the institution of a trial.
ABS will now pursue the invalidity of this patent through the Wisconsin litigation.
On 12 June 2015, ST was given leave to amend its counterclaims to allege the infringement by ABS and the Company of US Patent No.
This Wisconsin litigation continues through discovery, depositions and related preparations for trial.
ABS intends to continue to vigorously pursue this litigation, in order to seek to enter and compete in this market using its own technology.
Included within other is 1.2m related principally to refocus the European porcine business as it continues to reduce farm operations and align with the Groups global strategy.
During the year a settlement gain of 0.4m was recorded in relation to members leaving the Milk Pension Fund.
Operating profit Operating costs comprise: 2015 2014 m m Cost of sales excluding net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets and amortisation of multiplier contract intangible assets 177.4 167.6 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 24.9 7.5 Amortisation of multiplier contract intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Cost of goods 152.7 160.3 Other cost of sales 84.1 79.6 Amortisation of customer relationship intangible assets 3.6 3.0 Cost of sales 87.7 82.6 Research and Development expenditure 28.6 27.7 Amortisation of technology intangible assets 2.3 2.6 Research and Development costs 30.9 30.3 Administrative expenses 60.6 53.8 Share-based payment expense 1.4 0.8 Amortisation of software 0.6 0.6 Exceptional items within administrative expenses 5.1 2.0 Total administrative expenses 67.7 57.2 Total operating costs 339.0 330.4 Profit for the year is stated after charging: 2015 2014 m m Net foreign exchange losses 0.1 Depreciation of owned fixed assets 5.1 4.2 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 1.2 0.9 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.4 0.2 Impairment on asset held for sale 0.3 Operating lease rentals plant and machinery 3.5 2.3 other 5.6 4.0 Employee costs see note 9 109.1 99.4 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 86.8 71.2 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 107 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Auditors remuneration is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 Total audit fees 0.6 0.6 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.2 Taxation advisory services 0.1 Other services 0.2 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.3 Total fees to the Groups auditor 0.9 0.9 Fees payable to other auditors of Group companies Non-audit tax services principally comprise tax advisory and tax compliance support services.
This year 0.2m of nonaudit fees have been incurred in relation to due diligence work.
These services fall within the non-audit services policy approved by the Companys Audit Committee.
Employee costs Employee costs, including Directors remuneration amounted to: 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries including bonuses and sales commission 97.3 89.7 Social security costs 8.3 6.8 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 2.1 2.0 Share-based payment expense excluding NI 1.4 0.9 109.1 99.4 The average monthly number of full time equivalent employees, including Executive Directors, was as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number Genus PIC 501 515 Genus ABS 1,378 1,289 Genus Asia 337 377 Research and Development 118 93 Central 52 40 2,386 2,314 Included in the totals above: UK 737 707 The Directors Remuneration Report sets out details of the Directors remuneration, pensions and share options.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 108 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 10.
Net finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1.8 1.7 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.4 0.4 Other interest payable 0.1 0.2 Net interest cost in respect of pension scheme liabilities 2.3 2.9 Net interest cost on derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.5 Total interest expense 4.8 5.7 Interest income on bank deposits 0.2 0.2 Total interest income 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 4.6 5.5 11.
Income tax expense 2015 2014 m m Current tax expense Current period 13.0 10.8 Adjustment for prior periods 0.4 0.7 Total current tax expense in the Group Income Statement 12.6 10.1 Deferred tax expense income Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 19 5.1 1.0 Adjustment for prior periods 0.4 0.2 Total deferred tax expense income in the Group Income Statement 4.7 0.8 Total income tax expense excluding share of income tax of equity accounted investees 17.3 9.3 Share of income tax of equity accounted investees 0.7 0.7 Total income tax expense in the Group Income Statement 18.0 10.0 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2015 2015 2014 2014 % m % m Profit before tax 57.8 38.2 Income tax at UK corporation tax of 20.75% 2014: 22.5% 20.75 12.0 22.50 8.6 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 13.85 8.0 15.70 6.0 Non-deductible expenses 2.40 1.4 0.50 0.2 Tax exempt income and incentives 6.40 3.7 5.00 1.9 Change in tax rate 1.00 0.6 6.30 2.4 Movements in recognition of tax losses 1.00 0.6 1.60 0.6 Change in unrecognised temporary differences 1.70 1.0 1.30 0.5 Tax over provided in prior periods 1.40 0.8 1.00 0.4 Tax on undistributed reserves 0.20 0.1 0.50 0.2 Total income tax expense in the Group Income Statement 31.10 18.0 26.20 10.0 The tax rate for the year depends on our mix of profits by country, particularly the high proportion of profits we generate in North America, and our ability to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of losses in some of our smaller territories.
The tax credit attributable to exceptional items is 1.6m 2014: 0.3m.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 109 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Income tax recognised directly in equity Tax in relation to: 2015 2014 m m Foreign exchange differences on long-term intra-Group currency loans 0.3 0.2 Actuarial movement on retirement benefit obligations 1.6 2.5 Translation of biological assets, intangible assets and finance leases 6.4 8.0 Income tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 5.1 5.3 Share-based payment expense 0.8 0.1 Total income tax recognised directly in equity 4.3 5.4 12.
Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2015 2014 m m Final dividend Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 12.2 pence per share 7.4 Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 11.1 pence per share 6.7 Interim dividend Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2015 of 6.1 pence per share 3.7 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 5.5 pence per share 3.4 11.1 10.1 The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 13.4 pence per share for 2015.
This is subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting and we have therefore not included it as a liability in these financial statements.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 2015 2014 Basic earnings per share 66.7p 47.7p The calculation of basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 30 June 2015 is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations of 40.5m 2014: 28.9m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 60,702,000 2014: 60,592,000, which is calculated as follows: Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 2015 2014 000s 000s Issued ordinary shares at start of the year 60,919 60,649 Effect of own shares held 239 239 Shares issued on exercise of stock options 22 41 Shares issued in relation to employee benefit trust 141 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in year 60,702 60,592 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 110 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 13.
Earnings per share continued Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 2015 2014 Diluted earnings per share 65.9p 47.6p The calculation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the year ended 30 June 2015 is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations of 40.5m 2014: 28.9m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, after adjusting for the effects of all potential dilutive ordinary shares of 61,476,000 2014: 60,713,000, which is calculated as follows: Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 2015 2014 000s 000s Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 60,702 60,592 Dilutive effect of share options 774 121 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 61,476 60,713 Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 2015 2014 Adjusted earnings per share 56.8p 46.5p Diluted adjusted earnings per share 56.1p 46.4p Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on profit before net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense and exceptional items after charging taxation associated with those profits, of 34.5m 2014: 28.2m, which is calculated as follows: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 57.8 38.2 Add deduct : Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 24.9 7.5 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6.1 5.8 Share-based payment expense 1.4 0.8 Exceptional items see note 7 5.1 2.0 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets in joint ventures and associates 1.0 0.7 Tax on joint ventures and associates 0.7 0.7 Attributable to non-controlling interest 0.6 Adjusted profit before tax 46.6 39.3 Adjusted tax charge 12.1 11.1 Adjusted profit after taxation 34.5 28.2 Effective tax rate on adjusted profit 26.0% 28.2% Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 111 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 14.
Included above is 11.1m of capitalised development expenses in respect of GSS, and in addition there is also 5.4m included within fixed assets relating to GSS.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 112 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 14.
Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for cash-generating units CGU containing goodwill To test impairment, we allocate goodwill to our operating segments.
These are the lowest level within the Group at which we monitor goodwill for internal management purposes.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each operating segment are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Genus PIC 49.2 47.1 Genus ABS 17.2 15.8 Genus Asia 7.5 7.0 73.9 69.9 We test goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
We determine the recoverable amount of our CGUs by using value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for these calculations relate to discount rates, growth rates, expected changes to selling prices, direct costs and the cost saving derived from the GSS project.
We have estimated the discount rate using the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
Our estimates of changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and our expectations offuture changes in the market.
We prepare cash flows for the next five years derived from our most recent financial and strategic plans approved by management, and extrapolate cash flows beyond this period using estimated growth rates.
We have applied annual growth rates as outlined below to cash flows in the five year financial and strategic planning period.
A growth rate of 2.5% 2014: 2.5% has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond this period.
The post-tax WACC of 8.0% 2014: 8.0% we applied to our cash flow projections equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 10.8% 2014: 11.1%.
We risk adjusted the discount rate on a country basis adding between nil and 16% to the WACC as appropriate.
Genus PIC and Genus ABS CGUs are deemed to be significant.
The individual country assumptions used to determine value in use for these CGUs are: Risk adjusted Short-term Long-term discount rate growth rates CAGR growth rates 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Genus PIC 11%26% 11%14% 1%14% 3%15% 2.5% 2.5% Genus ABS 11%26% 11%26% 3%19% 3%33% 2.5% 2.5% Sensitivity to changes in assumptions We believe that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 113 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 15.
Biological assets Fair value of biological assets Bovine Porcine Total m m m Non-current biological assets 147.0 77.0 224.0 Current biological assets 40.5 40.5 Balance at 30 June 2013 147.0 117.5 264.5 Increases due to purchases 5.6 102.5 108.1 Decreases attributable to sales 153.2 153.2 Decrease due to harvest 33.3 11.0 44.3 Changes in fair value less estimated sale costs 24.5 75.0 99.5 Acquisition of Gntiporc 8.9 8.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 15.2 15.3 30.5 Balance at 30 June 2014 128.6 124.4 253.0 Non-current biological assets 128.6 80.3 208.9 Current biological assets 44.1 44.1 Balance at 30 June 2014 128.6 124.4 253.0 Increases due to purchases 6.9 119.6 126.5 Decreases attributable to sales 166.3 166.3 Decrease due to harvest 34.8 16.7 51.5 Changes in fair value less estimated sale costs 34.5 78.7 113.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 9.6 8.4 18.0 Balance at 30 June 2015 144.8 148.1 292.9 Non-current biological assets 144.8 97.9 242.7 Current biological assets 50.2 50.2 Balance at 30 June 2015 144.8 148.1 292.9 Bovine biological assets include 6.0m 2014: 3.6m representing the fair value of bulls owned by third parties but managed by the Group, net of expected future payments to such third parties and are therefore treated as assets held under finance leases.
There are no movements in the carrying value of the bovine biological assets in respect of sales or other changes during the year.
The current market determined post-tax rate used to discount expected future net cash flows from the sale of bull semen is the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Decreases due to harvest represent the semen extracted from the biological assets.
Inventories of such semen are shown as biological asset harvest in note 20.
Porcine biological assets include 65.2m 2014: 49.5m relating to the fair value of the retained interest in the genetics inrespect of animals, other than parent gilts, to customers under royalty contracts.
Total revenue in the period includes 94.6m 2014: 80.7m in respect of these contracts, comprising 17.5m 2014: 13.6m on initial transfer of animals to customers and 77.1m 2014: 67.1m in respect of royalties received.
Decreases attributable to sales during the period of 166.3m 2014: 153.2m include 37.0m 2014: 32.8m in respect of the reduction in fair value of the retained interest in the genetics of animals, other than parent gilts, transferred under royalty contracts.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 114 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 15.
Biological assets continued For pure line porcine herds, the net cash flows from the expected output of the herds are discounted at the Groups required rate of return adjusted for the greater risk implicit in including output from future generations.
This adjusted rate has been assessed as 11% 2014: 11.0%.
The number of future generations which have been taken into account is seven 2014: seven and their estimated useful lifespan is 1.3 years 2014: 1.4 years.
Included in increases due to purchases is the aggregate increase arising during the period on initial recognition of biological assets in respect of multiplier purchases 43.3m 2014: 34.1m.
Year ended 30 June 2015 Bovine Porcine Total m m m Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets Changes in fair value of biological assets 34.5 78.7 113.2 Inventory transferred to cost of sales at fair value 30.0 16.7 46.7 Biological assets transferred to cost of sales at fair value 42.2 42.2 4.5 19.8 24.3 Fair value movement in related financial derivative 0.6 0.6 4.5 20.4 24.9 Year ended 30 June 2014 Bovine Porcine Total m m m Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets Changes in fair value of biological assets 24.5 75.0 99.5 Inventory transferred to cost of sales at fair value 30.7 11.0 41.7 Biological assets transferred to cost of sales at fair value 50.3 50.3 6.2 13.7 7.5 This represents the difference between operating profit prepared under IAS 41 and operating profit prepared under historical cost accounting, which forms part of the reconciliation to adjusted operating profit.
Fair value measurement All of the biological assets fall under Level 3 of the hierarchy defined in IFRS 13.
Unobservable inputs 2015 2014 Sensitivity Bovine Long-term growth rate in volumes 3% 3% 1% decrease in the growth rate would result in approximately a 3.5m reduction in value.
Weighted average cost of capital 8% 8% 1% increase in the discount rate would result in approximately a 4.0m reduction in value.
Porcine Weighted average cost of capital 8%11% 8%11% 1% increase in the discount rate would result in approximately a 1.8m reduction in value.
Significant increases decreases in any of those inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower higher fair value measurement.
These assumptions vary significantly across different countries and species.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 115 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Additional information 2015 2014 Bovine Quantities at period end Number of proven bulls 277 315 Number of genomic bulls 110 116 Total number of marketable bulls 387 431 Number of doses of semen valued in inventory 8.2m 8.7m Total number of bulls in development 1,435 1,620 Amounts during the year Fair value of agricultural produce semen harvested during the period 34.8m 33.3m Porcine Quantities at period end Number of pigs existing own farms 131,842 137,055 Number of pigs acquired with Gntiporc 40,874 Number of pigs own farms 131,842 177,929 Number of pigs despatched on a royalty basis and valued at fair value 67,835 51,176 Amounts during the year Fair value of agricultural produce semen harvested during the period 16.7m 11.0m Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 116 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 16.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, motor Land and vehicles and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost or deemed cost Balance at 1 July 2013 36.8 40.2 77.0 Additions 1.5 4.8 6.3 Acquisition 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.3 1.2 1.5 Reclassified as held for sale 1.0 1.0 Effect of movements in exchange rates 5.0 5.1 10.1 Balance at 30 June 2014 32.0 38.9 70.9 Additions 4.2 10.0 14.2 Acquisition see note 37 0.2 0.9 1.1 Disposals 0.1 1.5 1.6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1.0 2.0 3.0 Balance at 30 June 2015 37.3 50.3 87.6 Depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 July 2013 12.1 19.9 32.0 Depreciation for the year 1.7 3.4 5.1 Disposals 0.2 1.1 1.3 On assets reclassified as held for sale 0.2 0.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2.1 3.2 5.3 Balance at 30 June 2014 11.3 19.0 30.3 Depreciation for the year 1.8 4.5 6.3 Disposals 0.1 0.8 0.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.2 1.4 1.6 Balance at 30 June 2015 13.2 24.1 37.3 Carrying amounts At 30 June 2015 24.1 26.2 50.3 At 30 June 2014 20.7 19.9 40.6 At 30 June 2013 24.7 20.3 45.0 Leased plant and machinery At 30 June 2015 plant, motor vehicles and equipment included assets held under finance leases with a carrying value of 6.8m 2014: 5.6m, 2013: 6.2m.
The associated depreciation charge for the year was 1.2m 2014: 0.9m, 2013: 1.0m.
Equity accounted investees The Groups share of profit after tax in its equity accounted investees for the year was 2.9m 2014: 1.9m.
The carrying value of the investment is reconciled as follows: 2015 2014 m m Balance at 1 July 21.7 11.4 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associate retained 2.9 1.9 Dividends received 2.3 0.9 Addition 0.8 11.2 Effect of other movements including exchange rates 3.5 1.9 Balance at 30 June 19.6 21.7 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 117 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION During the year the Group completed its investment under a joint venture agreement with B. G. Chitale Dairies Pvt.
Ltd and acquired a 50% interest in a newly formed company, Chitale Genus ABS India Pvt.
Summary financial information for equity accounted investees, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group: Year ended 30 June 2015 Current Non-current Biological Total Current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities assets Net assets Ownership m m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Gentica fide Sunos Ltda [Brazil] 49% 2.9 7.6 2.8 13.3 2.1 2.1 11.2 HY-CO Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH [Germany] 50% 0.1 0.1 0.1 Humei Pig Improvement Company [China] 50% 1.0 1.0 1.0 Xianyang Yongxiang Agriculture Technology Co. Ltd. [China] 49% 6.4 0.1 6.5 6.5 Chitale Genus ABS India Private Limited [India] 50% 0.8 0.8 0.8 11.2 7.6 2.9 21.7 2.1 2.1 19.6 Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological Operating Profit Revenue assets Expenses profit Taxation after tax Income statement Ownership m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Gentica fide Sunos Ltda [Brazil] 49% 17.1 0.6 12.3 4.2 0.7 3.5 HY-CO Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH [Germany] 50% 2.9 2.9 Humei Pig Improvement Company [China] 50% 2.4 2.8 0.4 0.4 Xianyang Yongxiang Agriculture Technology Co. Ltd. [China] 49% 3.4 0.4 3.2 0.2 0.2 Chitale Genus ABS India Private Limited [India] 50% 25.8 1.0 21.2 3.6 0.7 2.9 Year ended 30 June 2014 Current Non-current Biological Total Current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities assets Net assets Ownership m m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Gentica fide Sunos Ltda [Brazil] 49% 3.3 7.4 3.1 13.8 1.3 1.3 12.5 HY-CO Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH [Germany] 50% 0.2 0.2 0.2 Humei Pig Improvement Company [China] 50% 1.3 1.3 1.3 Xianyang Yongxiang Agriculture Technology Co. Ltd. [China] 49% 7.1 0.6 7.7 7.7 11.9 7.4 3.7 23.0 1.3 1.3 21.7 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 118 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 17.
Equity accounted investees continued Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological Operating Profit Revenue assets Expenses profit Taxation after tax Income statement Ownership m m m m m m Agroceres PIC Gentica fide Sunos Ltda [Brazil] 49% 12.8 0.1 10.2 2.7 0.7 2.0 HY-CO Hybridschweine Cooperations GmbH [Germany] 50% 6.0 5.9 0.1 0.1 Humei Pig Improvement Company [China] 50% 2.3 2.6 0.3 0.3 Xianyang Yongxiang Agriculture Technology Co. Ltd. [China] 49% 1.7 0.6 2.2 0.1 0.1 22.8 0.7 20.9 2.6 0.7 1.9 18.
Available for sale investments 2015 2014 m m Fair value 0.2 0.1 Available for sale investments are in respect of unlisted trade related investments.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses which are available for offset against future profits, with a potential tax benefit of 11.9m 2014: 12.4m.
We have recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of 1.5m 2014: 1.0m of these benefits as we expect these losses to be offset against future profits of the relevant jurisdictions in the near term.
We have not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of the remaining 10.4m 2014: 11.4m, due to uncertainty about the availability of future taxable profits in the relevant jurisdictions.
We have not recognised deferred tax liabilities totalling 3.9m 2014: 4.2m for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain overseas subsidiaries.
This is because we can control the timing and reversal of these differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities We have offset deferred tax assets and liabilities above, to the extent that they arise in the same tax jurisdiction.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 7.8 4.8 Deferred tax liabilities 105.2 90.3 97.4 85.5 UK deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at 20%.
The Government intends to enact further reductions in the main tax rate down to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective from 1 April 2020.
As these tax rates were not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the relevant rate reductions are not yet reflected in these financial statements, as it is a non-adjusting event occurring after the reporting period.
We estimate that the future rate change to 18% would reduce our UK net deferred tax asset recognised at 30 June 2015 from 7.5m to 6.7m.
The actual impact will be dependent on our deferred tax position at that time.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 119 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year Balance Changes in Prior year Balance brought tax rate adjustments carried forward Recognised recognised recognised Foreign forward 1 July in income in income in income Recognised exchange 30 June 2014 statement statement statement in equity Acquisitions difference 2015 m m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 4.4 0.9 0.1 0.4 0.4 4.4 Intangible assets 17.6 1.3 0.1 0.8 0.2 2.1 0.6 18.5 Biological assets 81.6 8.1 0.7 0.9 6.2 97.5 Retirement benefit obligations 12.1 0.6 1.6 0.1 13.2 Share-based payment expense 1.1 0.2 0.1 0.7 1.9 Short-term timing differences 3.9 0.2 1.8 0.5 6.4 Tax loss carry-forwards 1.0 0.1 0.5 0.1 1.5 85.5 6.0 0.9 0.4 4.1 2.1 1.0 97.4 Balance Changes in Prior year Balance brought tax rate adjustments carried forward Recognised recognised recognised Foreign forward 1 July in income in income in income Recognised exchange 30 June 2013 statement statement statement in equity Acquisitions difference 2014 m m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 5.5 0.5 0.6 4.4 Intangible assets 20.5 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.9 17.6 Biological assets 87.7 3.1 2.0 7.2 81.6 Financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit obligations 15.1 0.3 2.5 0.2 12.1 Share-based payment expense 1.6 0.3 0.2 1.1 Short-term timing differences 3.7 0.8 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 3.9 Tax loss carry-forwards 0.5 0.5 1.0 92.7 1.5 2.5 0.2 5.4 1.0 85.5 20.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Biological assets harvest classed as inventories 23.0 22.5 Raw materials and consumables 1.0 1.1 Goods held for resale 8.2 7.0 32.2 30.6 21.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 64.4 63.4 Other debtors 4.7 5.2 Prepayments and accrued income 3.3 3.9 Other taxes and social security 2.3 2.6 74.7 75.1 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 120 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 21.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables The average credit period our customers take on the sales of goods is 59 days 2014: 62 days.
We do not charge interest on receivables for the first 30 days from the date of the invoice.
We provide for all receivables based upon knowledge of the customer and historical experience, and estimate irrecoverable amounts by reference to past default experience.
No customer represents more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables 2014: nil.
At 30 June 2015 45.0m 2014: 44.9m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of 19.6m 2014: 18.7m which are past due at the reporting date but which we have not provided for, as there has been no significant change in credit quality and we consider the amounts are recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The average age of these receivables is 45 days 2014: 60 days.
Ageing of trade receivables that are past due and presented net of provisions that have been established: 2015 2014 m m 030 days 11.5 9.8 3190 days 5.5 4.7 91180 days 2.0 2.5 Over 180 days 0.6 1.7 19.6 18.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
At 30 June 2015, trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts of 3.1m 2014: 3.2m.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2015 2014 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.2 3.1 Impairment losses recognised 0.4 1.5 Amounts written off as uncollectible 0.3 0.4 Impairment losses reversed 0.3 0.7 Acquired on acquisition 0.4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 Balance at the end of the year 3.1 3.2 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, we consider any change in the receivables credit quality from the date we initially granted credit up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited, as our customer base is large and unrelated.
The impairment recognised is the difference between the carrying amount of these trade receivables and the present value of expected proceeds.
Receivables denominated in currencies other than Sterling comprise 21.5m of receivables denominated in US Dollars 2014: 21.3m, 11.8m of receivables denominated in Euros 2014: 14.0m and 26.3m of receivables denominated in other currencies 2014: 23.9m.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Bank balances 21.3 22.8 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Included within bank balances above is 4.6m 2014: 4.9m which is subject to certain local restrictions.
The majority is held in China for future investment.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 121 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 23.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 16.6 16.8 Other payables and accrued expenses 37.6 31.7 Other taxes and social security 4.7 4.8 58.9 53.3 Payables denominated in currencies other than Sterling comprise 17.5m of payables denominated in US Dollars 2014: 12.2m, 8.9m of payables denominated in Euros 2014: 10.4m and 15.3m of payables denominated in other currencies 2014: 13.7m.
The carrying values of these liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Provisions Onerous property Other leases provisions Total m m m Balance at 30 June 2013 0.8 0.4 1.2 Additional provision in the year 0.8 0.8 Utilisation of provision 0.1 0.3 0.4 Release of provision 0.2 0.2 Balance at 30 June 2014 0.5 0.9 1.4 Additional provision in the year 0.1 2.2 2.3 Utilisation of provision 0.3 0.8 1.1 Release of provision 0.2 0.2 Balance at 30 June 2015 0.1 2.3 2.4 2015 2014 m m Current 2.4 1.4 Non-current Balance at 30 June 2.4 1.4 Other provisions relate to legal and restructuring costs.
The onerous property provision represents the discounted future costs of properties not occupied by the Group or sublet.
We computed these costs net of risk-weighted rental income and, where necessary, dilapidation and letting expenses, and expect to utilise the provision over the next year.
Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that Group entities can continue as a going concern, while maximising the return to stakeholders by optimising our debt and equity balance.
The Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 26, cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 30.
Gearing ratio The Group keeps its capital structure under review.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Debt 93.1 86.7 Cash and cash equivalents 21.3 22.8 Net debt 71.8 63.9 Equity 305.1 285.3 Net debt to equity ratio 24% 22% Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 26.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Parent.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 122 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 25.
Financial instruments continued Externally imposed capital requirement The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
We have categorised financial instruments held at valuation into a three-level fair value hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique in accordance with IFRS 7.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level 3.
If the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, we base the category level on the lowest priority level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety.
We have estimated the fair values of the Groups outstanding interest rate swaps by calculating the present value of future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates, representing Level 2 fair value measurements as defined by IFRS 7.
We have not categorised any financial instruments as Level 1 or Level 3.
Categories of financial instruments Carrying value 2015 2014 m m Financial assets Assets held for sale 0.5 0.8 Trade receivables and other debtors excluding prepayments 71.4 71.2 Cash and cash equivalents 21.3 22.8 Derivative instruments in non-designated hedge accounting relationships 0.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 58.9 53.3 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.1 0.2 Loans and overdrafts 89.6 84.1 Leasing obligations 3.5 2.6 Derivative instruments in non-designated hedge accounting relationships 0.1 2.4 Put option over non-controlling interest 10.0 Financial risk management objectives The Groups Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates our access to domestic and international financial markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the Groups operations, through internal risk reports that analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
We seek to minimise the effects of these risks by hedging them using derivative financial instruments.
Our use of financial derivatives is governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity.
The Board of Directors regularly reviews our compliance with policies and exposure limits.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Key financial risks and exposures are monitored through a monthly report to the Board of Directors, together with an annual Board review of corporate treasury matters.
Financial risk The principal financial risks our activities expose us to are risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
We use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk, including: forward foreign exchange contracts, to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the sale of goods and purchase of supplies in foreign currencies: interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates: and forward commodity contracts, to hedge commodity price risk.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 123 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Foreign currency risk management We undertake transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
We manage any exposures to exchange rate fluctuations within approved policy parameters, by using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Liabilities Assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m US Dollar including leases 73.4 75.8 4.3 1.0 Euro 4.2 4.8 0.3 Russian Rouble 0.6 Brazilian Real 0.1 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 5.3 4.9 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is mainly exposed to movement in the US Dollar, Euro, Brazilian Real and Mexican Peso exchange rates.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in Sterling against these currencies.
10% isthe sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents ourassessment of a significant change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
It includes external loans, as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the loan is denominated in acurrency other than the lender or borrowers currency.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit when Sterling weakens against the relevant currency.
A strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency would produce an equal but opposite impact on profit, and the balances below would be negative.
The impact on other equity is minimal, due to the net investment hedging in place.
Euro US Dollar currency impact currency impact 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m 10% currency movement Profit or loss 1.2 0.7 2.3 2.4 Brazilian Real Mexican Peso currency impact currency impact 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m 10% currency movement Profit or loss 0.6 0.6 1.0 0.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts The Groups policy is to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding as at the year end: Average Contract value Fair value exchange Foreign rate currency 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2015 m m m m Outstanding contracts Sell CNY 9.31 CNY 0.3 0.6 Sell PLN 5.86 PLN 0.9 0.7 Buy AUD 2.01 AUD 1.0 Buy EUR 1.40 EUR 0.7 2.0 Buy CAD Sell USD 1.23 CAD 1.5 3.6 Buy USD Sell ARS 9.86 ARS 0.8 0.3 0.1 Buy USD Sell BRL 3.14 BRL 2.0 0.9 Buy USD Sell COP 2571 COP 0.8 0.4 Buy USD Sell EUR 1.12 EUR 0.8 0.3 Buy USD Sell CNY 6.13 CNY 1.0 0.9 Buy MXN Sell USD 15.27 MXN 1.6 0.1 Buy PHP Sell USD 44.92 PHP 1.0 Buy EUR Sell CHF 1.05 CHF 0.2 0.2 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 124 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 25.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, as Group entities borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Wemanage this risk centrally, by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, using interestrate swaps.
We regularly review our hedging activities, to align with our interest rate views and defined risk appetite, thereby ensuring we apply optimal hedging strategies to minimise the adverse impact of fluctuations in interestexpense through different interest rate cycles.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis We have determined the sensitivity analyses below based on the Groups exposure to interest rates for both derivatives andnon-derivative instruments, at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, we prepared the analysis assuming the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and is our assessment of a significant change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 1.0% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2015 would decrease or increase by 0.5m 2014: decrease increase by 0.5m.
This impact is smaller thanwould otherwise be the case due to the effects of fixed rate hedging.
Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
These contracts enable us to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the cash flow exposures on the variable rate debt we hold.
We determine the fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date by discounting the future cash flows, using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
This fair value is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps Average contract Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts % % m m m m USD interest rate swaps Within one year 0.61 1.42 25.4 17.5 0.1 0.2 Two to five years 0.68 0.64 12.7 35.0 The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The corresponding floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 3 month LIBOR.
We settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis.
Interest rate swap contracts that exchange floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges, to reduce our cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and we recognise the amount deferred in equity in profit or loss, over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact profit or loss.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 125 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Commodity hedges The Group hedges both feed and slaughter exposures by using the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME lean hog, corn, soybean meal and winter wheat commodity futures.
Notional principal Average price amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Commodity hedge US$ US$ m m m m Open contracts from July 2015 to June 2016 Lean hog futures 0.75 n a 4.8 n a 0.4 n a Corn 4.18 n a 2.0 n a 0.1 n a Soybean meal 320 n a 1.5 n a 0.1 n a Winter wheat 6.00 n a 0.3 n a n a Open contracts from July 2014 to June 2015 Lean hog futures 0.90 0.83 1.0 8.9 2.0 Corn 4.43 4.68 0.3 2.2 0.2 Soybean meal 346 351 0.2 1.4 0.1 Winter wheat 6.24 6.39 0.1 0.5 1.4 4.8 0.6 2.1 Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss to the Group.
We have a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
We regularly monitor our exposure and the credit ratings of our counterparties, and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Credit exposure on financial instruments is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
Wecarry out ongoing credit evaluation on the financial condition of accounts receivable.
Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for managing liquidity risk rests with the Board of Directors.
We manage this risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities, excluding trade payables and other creditors.
We have drawn up these tables based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, using the earliest date on which we can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cashflows.
Weighted average effective Less than 13 3 months 15 5 interest rate 1 month months to 1 year years years Total % m m m m m m 2015 Variable interest rate instruments 1.6 6.0 3.5 5.2 81.7 96.4 2014 Variable interest rate instruments 1.6 7.5 3.2 4.9 76.7 92.3 The following table details the Groups expected maturity for other non-derivative financial assets, excluding trade receivables and other debtors.
We have drawn up these tables based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the assets, including interest we will earn on them, except where we expect the cash flow to occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than 13 3 months 15 5 interest rate 1 month months to 1 year years years Total % m m m m m m 2015 Variable interest rate instruments 0.96 21.3 21.3 2014 Variable interest rate instruments 0.82 20.7 2.1 22.8 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 126 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 25.
Financial instruments continued The Group has financing facilities with a total unused amount of 51.1m 2014: 55.4m at the balance sheet date.
We expect to meet our other obligations from operating cash flows and the proceeds of maturing financial assets.
We expect to reduce the debt to equity ratio as borrowings decrease through repayment from operating cash flows.
The following table details the Groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
We have drawn up the table based on the undiscounted net cash outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross outflows on derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, we have determined the amount disclosed by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates, as illustrated by the yield curves at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 15 5 1 month months to 1 year years years Total m m m m m m 2015 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 2014 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 26.
Loans and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 77.4 71.1 Obligations under finance leases 2.4 1.5 79.8 72.6 Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 12.2 13.0 Obligations under finance leases 1.1 1.1 13.3 14.1 Total interest-bearing liabilities 93.1 86.7 Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans and overdrafts were as follows: 2015 2014 Currency Interest rate m m Revolving credit facility and overdraft GBP 1.7% 10.8 6.5 Revolving credit facility and term loan and overdraft USD 1.4% 73.1 73.0 Revolving credit facility and overdraft EUR 1.6% 3.5 4.0 Finance lease liabilities USD 5.0% 3.5 2.6 Other unsecured bank borrowings Other 1.4% 2.2 0.6 Total interest-bearing liabilities 93.1 86.7 The above revolving credit facilities are unsecured.
Information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk is shown in note 25.
2015 2014 m m Loans and borrowings excluding finance leases comprise amounts falling due: In one year or less or on demand 12.7 13.4 In more than one year but not more than two years 6.5 5.9 In more than two years but not more than five years 70.9 65.7 90.1 85.0 Less: unamortised issue costs 0.5 0.9 89.6 84.1 Current liabilities 12.2 13.0 Non-current liabilities 77.4 71.1 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 127 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Groups credit facilities at the balance sheet date comprised a 65m multi-currency revolving credit facility, a US$100m revolving credit facility and an amortising US$15m term loan, repayable in instalments by 15 September 2017.
As part of its interest rate strategy, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps to hedge floating LIBOR rates.
As a result, bank loan and overdrafts include borrowings of US$60m 38.2m fixed at 0.64%, excluding applicable bank margin.
Also included in the above are unsecured loans of 0.1m 2014: 0.2m for an agricultural development loan in the US and a 0.1m 2014: 0.2m loan in Spain.
Both of these loans are interest free.
Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum lease lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Less than one year 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Between one to five years 2.4 0.2 2.6 1.5 0.1 1.6 3.5 0.2 3.7 2.6 0.1 2.7 Finance lease liabilities are secured over the assets to which they relate.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group has a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes covering many of its employees.
The principal funds are the Milk Pension Fund and Dalgety Pension Fund in the UK, which are defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these funds are held separately from the assets of the Group and administered by trustees and managed professionally.
The financial position of the defined benefit schemes as recorded in accordance with IAS 19 are aggregated for disclosure purposes.
The liability split by principal scheme is set out below.
2015 2014 m m The Milk Pension Fund Genuss share 54.3 49.5 The Dalgety Pension Fund Other retirement benefit obligations 8.8 8.7 Overall pension liability 63.1 58.2 Overall, we expect to pay 6.8m 2015: 6.1m in contributions to defined benefit plans in the 2016 financial year.
The Milk Pension Fund MPF The MPF was previously operated by the Milk Marketing Board and was also open to staff working for Milk Marque Ltd the principal employer now known as Community Foods Group Limited, National Milk Records plc, First Milk Ltd, hauliers associated to First Milk Ltd, Dairy Farmers of Britain Ltd which went into receivership in June 2009 and Milk Link Ltd. We have accounted for our section of the scheme and our share of any orphan assets and liabilities, which together represent approximately 75% of the MPF 2014: 75%.
Although the MPF is managed on a sectionalised basis, it is a last man standing scheme, which means that all participating employers are joint and severally liable for all of the funds liabilities.
The most recent actuarial triennial valuation of the MPF was at 31 March 2012.
The valuation used the projected unit method for future service, a control period of three years was used and was carried out by qualified actuaries.
The principal actuarial assumptions adopted in the 2012 valuation were that investment returns on existing assets would be 6.4% per annum before retirement and 4.0% per annum after retirement, and that pensions in payment would increase by 3.4% per annum.
At 31 March 2012 the market value of the funds assets was 312m.
This represented approximately 69% of the value of the uninsured liabilities which were 453m at 31 March 2012, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The deficit in the fund as a whole, by reference to the 31 March 2012 valuation, was 141m of which Genuss notional share was 106m.
This shortfall is being addressed by additional contributions from the participating employers and the exit payment of 31m made in September 2012 by two employers.
Under the funding agreement, Genus has agreed to make deficit repair contributions of between 4.5m and 6.4m per annum between 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2016, and rising thereafter by 3.4% per annum for a further nine years until 31 March 2026.
With effect from 30 June 2013, Genuss active members ceased accruing benefits in the fund and became deferred pensioners.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 128 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Dalgety Pension Fund DPF The most recent actuarial valuation of the DPF was at 31 March 2012.
The valuation of the scheme used the projected unit method and was carried out by professionally qualified actuaries.
The principal actuarial assumptions adopted in the 2012 valuation were that investment returns on existing assets would be 5.2% per annum before retirement and 3.3% per annum after retirement and that the annual increase in pensions in payment would be 3.5% per annum.
The market value of the available assets at 31 March 2012 was 21.3m.
The value of those assets represents approximately 99% of the value of the uninsured liabilities which were 21.6m at 31 March 2012.
Under the funding agreement, the Company will not have to make deficit repair contributions.
The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by an independent actuary based on accurate calculations carried out as at 31 March 2012 updated to 30 June 2015.
There is an 13.8m reserve held by the Trustees of DPF against future unknown liabilities materialising Restricted Fund.
As the economic benefit to Genus of this amount is not certain, it is treated as a contingent asset.
Other defined benefit scheme in deficit The Group operates a closed defined benefit scheme for a small number of former employees of the National Pig Development Company Limited.
The total market value of scheme assets and liabilities at 30 June 2015 under the provisions of IAS 19 were 5.0m 2014: 4.5m and 6.0m 2014: 5.9m, respectively.
Other unfunded schemes When the Group acquired Sygen International plc, it also acquired three unfunded defined benefit schemes and an unfunded retirement health benefit plan, which it now operates for the benefit of the previous groups senior employees and executives.
The scheme liabilities for the three unfunded defined benefit schemes amount to 6.7m 2014: 6.1m based on IAS 19s methods and assumptions.
This amount is included within pension liabilities in the Groups balance sheet.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities amounted to 0.2m 2014: 0.3m.
The principal assumptions used to calculate the scheme liabilities were that the discount rate would be 3.8% 2014: 4.2% and that inflation and pension payment increases would be 3.1% per annum 2014: 3.2%.
The scheme liabilities for the unfunded retirement health benefit plan amount to 1.1m 2014: 1.2m, based on IAS 19s methods and assumptions.
This amount is included within retirement benefit obligations in the Groups balance sheet.
Interest on plan liabilities amounted to 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
The principal assumptions used to calculate the plan liabilities were that the discount rate would be 3.8% 2014: 4.2% and that the long-term rate of medical expense inflation would be 7.1% 2014: 7.2%.
Aggregated position of defined benefit schemes 2015 2014 m m Present value of funded obligations includes Genuss 75% share of MPF 378.3 360.5 Present value of unfunded obligations 7.8 7.3 Total present value of obligations 386.1 367.8 Fair value of plan assets includes Genuss 75% share of MPF 329.2 314.6 Restrict recognition of asset DPF 6.2 5.0 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 63.1 58.2 Plan assets consist of the following: 2015 2014 m m Equities 106.2 165.0 Diversified growth funds 56.9 Liability driven investments 25.4 Gilts and corporate bonds 93.2 110.4 Cash 3.6 2.0 Other 43.9 37.2 329.2 314.6 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 129 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Movement in the liability for defined benefit obligations 2015 2014 m m Liability for defined benefit obligations at the start of the year 367.8 355.2 Benefits paid by the plans 14.5 15.1 Current service costs and interest 15.1 16.0 Actuarial losses gains recognised on fund liabilities arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.3 0.5 Actuarial losses recognised on fund liabilities arising from changes in financial assumptions 23.5 12.5 Actuarial gains losses recognised on fund liabilities arising from experience other 4.8 0.3 Gains on curtailments and settlements 1.8 Exchange rate adjustment 0.5 0.6 Liability for defined benefit obligations at the end of year 386.1 367.8 Movement in plan assets 2015 2014 m m Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 314.6 294.1 Administration expenses 0.6 0.4 Gains on curtailments and settlements 1.4 Contributions paid into the plans 6.1 5.6 Benefits paid by the plans 14.5 15.1 Interest income on plan assets 12.8 13.1 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 12.2 17.3 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 329.2 314.6 Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement 2015 2014 m m Administrative expenses 0.6 0.4 Interest obligation 15.1 16.0 Interest income on plan assets 12.8 13.1 Gains on curtailments and settlements 0.4 2.5 3.3 The expense income is recognised in the following line items in the income statement 2015 2014 m m Administrative expenses 0.6 0.4 Settlement gain in exceptional expenses 0.4 Finance charge 2.3 2.9 2.5 3.3 Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity 2015 2014 m m Cumulative loss at the start of the year 41.5 46.0 Actuarial loss gain recognised during the year 6.8 5.0 Movement in restriction of asset 1.2 1.1 Exchange rate adjustment 0.5 0.6 Cumulative loss at the end of the year 50.0 41.5 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 130 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date expressed as weighted averages : 2015 2014 Discount rate 3.8% 4.2% Expected return on plan assets 6.3% 6.6% Medical cost trend rate 7.1% 7.2% Future pension increases and inflation 3.1% 3.2% The mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the schemes actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the scheme where appropriate.
For 2015 and 2014, the mortality tables used are 90% of the SN1A tables, with birth year and 2011 CMI projections, with mortality rates increased by 25% at all ages.
The following table shows the assumptions used for all schemes and illustrates the life expectancy of an average member retiring at age 65 at the balance sheet date and a member reaching age 65 in 20 years time.
2015 2014 Years Years Retiring at balance sheet date at age 65: Male 23.4 23.3 Female 25.9 25.8 Retiring at age 65 in 20 years time: Male 25.2 25.1 Female 27.8 27.7 The overall expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.3% 2014: 6.6%.
The expected long-term rate of return is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset categories.
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments.
Duration of benefit obligations The weighted average duration of the defined benefits obligations at 30 June 2015 is 17.5 years 2014: 17.5 years.
Sensitivity analysis Measurement of the Groups defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in certain key assumptions.
The sensitivity analysis below shows how a reasonably possible increase or decrease in a particular assumption would, in isolation, result in an increase or decrease in the present value of the defined benefits obligation as at 30 June 2015.
Discount rate Rate of inflation Life expectancy Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase by 0.25% by 0.25% by 0.25% by 0.25% by 1 year by 1 year m m m m m m Increase decrease in present value of defined obligation 16.6 15.8 11.0 11.5 16.0 16.0 The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefits obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another.
The sensitivities assume the funds assets remain unchanged, however in practice changes in interest rates and inflation will also affect the value of the funds assets.
The funds investment strategy aims to hold matching assets which should move broadly in line with the liabilities of the funds so as to protect partially against changes in interest rates and inflation.
In presenting this sensitivity analysis, the information has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting results of the latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
This is the same approach as has been adopted in previous periods.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 131 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Present value of the defined benefit obligation 386.1 367.8 355.2 204.7 163.0 Fair value of plan assets 329.2 314.6 294.1 143.7 146.4 Restrict recognition of asset and recognition of additional liability 6.2 5.0 3.9 6.3 7.0 Deficit in the plan 63.1 58.2 65.0 67.3 23.6 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities % 4.9 2.9 5.1 10.8 3.0 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets % 3.7 4.9 2.5 5.5 7.0 29.
Share-based payments The Group recognised a total share-based payment expense of 1.4m 2014: 0.8m, including National Insurance contributions of nil 2014: 0.1m credit.
Share awards There are 1,034,287 conditional share awards outstanding at 30 June 2015.
These conditional shares were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management on 10 September 2010, 7 December 2012, 28 February 2013, 26 September 2013 and 14 March 2014, under the 2004 Performance Share Plan and 20 November 2014, under the new 2014 Performance Share Plan.
In accordance with the plans terms, participants have received a conditional annual award of shares or nil cost option awards which will normally vest after three years, with the proportion of the award vesting depending on growth in the Groups adjusted earnings per share.
Further details of the plans performance conditions are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In the year to 30 June 2015, awards were granted on 20 November 2014, with an aggregate fair value of 4,968,000.
The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is based on the fair value of share awards granted, measured using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Number Number of awards of awards 2015 2014 Outstanding at start of year 743,055 622,529 Exercised during the year 163,742 Lapsed during the year 135,947 29,867 Granted during the year 427,179 314,135 Outstanding at 30 June 1,034,287 743,055 Exercisable at 30 June 5,000 5,000 Bonus and restricted stock share awards In addition to the outstanding share awards above, there are 43,547 bonus and restricted stock share awards outstanding at 30 June 2015.
The bonus shares were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management as part of the compulsory deferred bonus and restricted stock share awards were granted to senior management in connection with recruitment.
In accordance with the awards terms, participants have received a conditional annual bonus award of shares or nil cost option awards, which will normally vest between one and three years, providing the participant is employed by the Group at that time.
In the year to 30 June 2015, 14,474 bonus share awards were granted on 21 October 2014, with an aggregate fair value of 164,000 and 43,847 restricted stock share awards were granted in total on 20 November 2014 and 30 December 2014, with an aggregate fair value of 490,000.
Number Number of awards of awards 2015 2014 Outstanding at start of year 9,270 Exercised during the year 24,044 814 Granted during the year 58,321 10,084 Outstanding at 30 June 43,547 9,270 Exercisable at 30 June 433 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 132 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 29.
Share-based payments continued Share options On 12 August 2004 the Group established a share option programme that entitles key management personnel and other senior employees to purchase shares in the Company.
Further grants on similar terms were offered to these employee groups as set out below.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as set out below.
All options are to be settled by physical delivery of shares and meet the criteria for being treated as equity settled.
Number of Option Contractual Employees entitled Grant date instruments Vesting conditions exerciseprice lifeofoptions 1 2004 Company share plan 21 June 2006 12,300 Exercisable 439.75p 10 years 2 2004 Company share plan 21 September 2007 7,759 Exercisable 582p 10 years 3 2004 Company share plan 19 September 2008 11,717 Exercisable 775.67p 10 years 4 2004 Company share plan 15 September 2009 24,710 Exercisable 654.5p 10 years 5 2004 Company share plan 10 September 2010 53,288 Exercisable 729.83p 10 years 6 2004 Company share plan 9 September 2011 201,097 3 years service 977.83p 10 years 7 2004 Company share plan 7 September 2012 144,060 3 years service 1,334p 10 years 8 2004 Company share plan 26 September 2013 157,890 3 years service 1,413p 10 years Total share options 612,821 The options under 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 are now exercisable.
The options under 6, 7 and 8 above can only be exercised if over a three year period the average annual percentage growth in EPS exceeds a minimum of RPI 5% for the same period, unless provisions for good leavers have been met where members retire, leave employment due to ill-health or are made redundant.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average Number of average Number of exercise price options exercise price options 2015 2015 2014 2014 Outstanding at start of year 1,062p 723,156 908p 742,267 Forfeited during the year 1,282p 14,739 850p 30,355 SAR effected during the year 697p 45,880 743p 80,263 Exercised during the year 632p 49,716 699p 70,167 Granted during the year 1,413p 161,674 Outstanding at 30 June 1,119p 612,821 1,062p 723,156 Exercisable at 30 June 675p 109,774 669p 205,370 No share options were granted during the period.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options granted.
We measure this using a binomial model, with the following inputs: Assumptions applied in valuation models at grant date: 2015 2014 Exercise price of options granted in the year nil for awards n a 1,413p Expected volatility weighted average volatility n a 32% Option life expected weighted average life n a 6.5 years Expected dividends n a 1.10% Risk-free interest rate based on Government bonds n a 1.80% We determined expected volatility by calculating the historical volatility of the estimated fair value of the Companys share price over the previous three years.
We have adjusted the option life used in the model, based on our best estimate of the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 133 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 30.
Capital and reserves Share capital 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number Number m m Authorised Ordinary shares of 10 pence 75,989,400 75,989,400 7.6 7.6 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 10 pence 60,968,447 60,918,731 6.1 6.1 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time.
The movement in share capital for the period was as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number Number m m Issued under the Executive Share Option Plan 49,716 70,167 Issued to employee benefit trust 200,001 49,716 270,168 Shares issued under share option plans were issued at option prices as follows: 2015 2014 Number Price Number Price Executive Share Option Plan 11,454 310.5p 4,232 310.5p 582p 867 582p 531 776p 776p 899 654.5p 11,337 654.5p 36,832 729.83p 51,222 729.83p 977.83p 2,509 977.83p 49,716 70,167 Reserve for own shares The Companys shares are held by a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST, which is an employee benefit trust established to facilitate the operation of our long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
The reserve amount represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration the trust paid for the Companys shares, which had not vested unconditionally at the balance sheet date.
The number and market value of the ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust and the QUEST were: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number Number m m Shares allocated but not vested 146,625 146,625 2.1 1.7 Unallocated shares 92,334 92,334 1.3 1.0 238,959 238,959 3.4 2.7 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from translating the financial statements of our foreign operations, as well as from translating financial instruments and any related tax effect that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
In addition, translation gains, losses and the related tax arising on a US Dollar denominated inter-company loan to the Groups operations in the US are recorded in the translation reserve.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments net of taxation.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 134 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 30.
Capital and reserves continued Hedging and translation reserves Hedging Translation reserve reserve m m Balance at 30 June 2013 0.3 25.4 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 53.9 Loss recognised on net investment hedges 8.6 Gain recognised on cash flow hedges: interest swaps 0.3 Income tax related to losses recognised in equity 7.8 Balance at 30 June 2014 12.1 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 14.8 Gain recognised on net investment hedges 6.1 Income tax related to losses recognised in equity 6.7 Balance at 30 June 2015 10.1 31.
Notes to the cash flow statement 2015 2014 m m Profit for the year 40.5 28.9 Adjustment for: Net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets 24.9 7.5 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6.1 5.8 Share-based payment expense 1.4 0.8 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 2.9 1.9 Finance costs net 4.6 5.5 Income tax expense 17.3 9.3 Other exceptional items 5.1 2.0 Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 47.2 42.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6.3 5.1 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.4 0.2 Impairment on asset held for sale 0.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.6 0.6 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 54.8 48.8 Exceptional item cash 4.7 2.0 Other movements in biological assets and harvested produce 1.9 3.0 Increase in provisions 1.0 0.2 Additional pension contributions in excess of pension charge 6.1 5.6 Other 0.4 0.3 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 46.5 38.1 Increase decrease in inventories 0.6 1.5 Decrease in receivables 0.6 1.1 Increase in payables 4.2 3.6 Cash generated by operations 50.7 44.3 Interest received 0.2 0.2 Interest and other finance costs paid 2.2 1.8 Cash flow from derivative financial instruments 1.2 0.5 Income taxes paid 12.7 9.9 Net cash from operating activities 34.8 32.3 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 135 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Analysis of net debt At 1 July Net Foreign Non-cash At 30 June 2014 cash flows exchange movements 2015 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 22.8 2.3 0.7 1.5 21.3 Interest bearing loans current 13.0 8.6 1.0 6.8 12.2 Obligation under finance leases current 1.1 1.5 0.1 1.4 1.1 14.1 10.1 1.1 8.2 13.3 Interest bearing loans non-current 71.1 7.4 5.3 6.4 77.4 Obligation under finance lease non-current 1.5 0.1 0.8 2.4 72.6 7.4 5.4 5.6 79.8 Net debt 63.9 0.4 7.2 1.1 71.8 Included within non-cash movements is 2.2m in relation to new finance leases.
Operating leases The Group leases offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have various terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and machines under non-cancellable operating leases.
Total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which expire within: 2015 2014 m m Less than one year 1.3 1.5 Between one and five years 10.5 9.9 More than five years 11.1 7.4 22.9 18.8 The total future sublease payments receivable relating to the above operating leases amounted to nil 2014: nil.
Capital commitments At 30 June 2015 outstanding contracted capital expenditure amounted to 0.8m 2014: 1.8m.
Contingencies The retirement benefit obligations referred to in note 28 include obligations relating to the Milk Pension defined benefit scheme.
Genus, together with other participating employers, is joint and severally liable for the schemes obligations.
Genus has accounted for its section and its share of any orphan assets and liabilities, collectively representing approximately 75% of the Milk Pension Fund.
As a result of the joint and several liability, Genus has a contingent liability for the schemes obligations that it has not accounted for.
Related parties Transactions with key management personnel Key management compensation including Directors 2015 2014 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.7 4.0 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 Share-based payment expense 0.4 0.8 6.4 5.0 Directors Details of Directors compensation are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Other transactions with key management personnel Other than remuneration there were no transactions with key management personnel.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 136 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 35.
Related parties continued Other related party transactions Transaction value Balance outstanding 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Sale of goods and services to joint ventures 3.6 2.5 0.1 0.2 All outstanding balances with joint ventures and associates are priced on an arms length basis and are to be settled in cash within six months of the reporting date.
None of the balances are secured.
Group entities The Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates, together with their main activities are set out below.
Nature of business Bovine Name Incorporated Business activity Effective holding ABS Argentina S. A. Argentina Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Chile Limitada Chile Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Genetics South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Global Canada Inc. Canada Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Global, Inc. United States Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Italia S. r. l. Italy Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Mxico, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% ABS Progen Ireland Limited Ireland Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Bovec SAS France Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Chitale Genus ABS India Private Limited India Supply of dairy and beef semen 50% Genus Beijing International Trade Co. Ltd. China Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus Ukraine LLC Ukraine Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus ABS Colombia SAS Colombia Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus Australia Pty Ltd Australia Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus Breeding India Private Limited India Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus Breeding Limited United Kingdom Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% In Vitro Brasil S. A. Brazil Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 51% biotechnology services In Vitro Colombia S. A. S. Colombia Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 26% biotechnology services In Vitro ORIgen, LLC United States Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 25% biotechnology services In Vitro Russia LLC Russia Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 26% biotechnology services In Vitro Santa Catarina Produo fide Embries S. A. Brazil Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 26% biotechnology services In Vitro Moambique, Limitada Mozambique Supply of in vitro fertilisation and 41% biotechnology services OJSC Gulkevichskoe for Artificial Insemination of Russia Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Livestock Animals Pecplan ABS Imp.
Brazil Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Zitery S. A Uruguay Supply of dairy and beef semen 100% Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 137 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Porcine Name Incorporated Business activity Effective holding Agricola PIC Andina Limitada Chile Pig breeding 100% Agroceres PIC Argentina S A Argentina Pig breeding 47% Agroceres PIC Gentica fide Sunos Ltda Brazil Pig breeding 49% Agroceres PIC Matrizes fide Sunos Ltda Brazil Pig breeding 49% Agroceres PIC Sunos Ltda Brazil Pig breeding 49% Birchwood Genetics, Inc. United States Swine genetics 100% Gntiporc do Brasil Ltda Brazil Pig breeding 49% Genetiporc International Minnesota, LLC United States Swine genetics 100% Gntiporc Mxico, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Pig breeding 100% Genetiporc USA, LLC United states Swine genetics 100% Humei Pig Improvement Company China Pig breeding 50% HY-CO  GmbH Germany Pig breeding 50% PIC Zhangjiagang Pig Improvement Co. Ltd. China Pig breeding 100% PIC Andina S. A. Chile Pig breeding 100% PIC France SA France Pig breeding 100% PIC Genetics LLC Russia Pig breeding 100% PIC Italia S. r. l. Italy Pig breeding 50% PIC Philippines, Inc. Philippines Pig breeding 100% PIC Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Pig breeding and supply of dairy and 100% beefsemen PIC Romania S. R. L. Romania Pig breeding and supply of dairy and 100% beefsemen PIC USA, Inc. United States Swine Genetics 100% PIC Canada Ltd. Canada Swine Genetics 100% PIC Andina Venezuela S. A. Venezuela Pig breeding 100% Pig Improvement Company fide Mxico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Pig breeding 100% PIG Improvement Company Deutschland GmbH Germany Pig breeding and supply of dairy and 100% beefsemen Pig Improvement Company Espaa, S. A. Spain Pig breeding 100% Pig Improvement Company UK Limited United Kingdom Pig breeding 100% Reprodutores PIC, Lda Portugal Pig breeding 100% Shaanxi PIC Pig Improvement Co. Ltd. China Pig breeding 100% Xianyang Yongxiang Agriculture Technology Co. Ltd. China Pig breeding 49% Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 138 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 36.
Group entities continued Other Name Incorporated Business activity Effective holding Promar International Limited United Kingdom Market research and consultancy 100% Accounting & Managerial Services S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Labour services 100% Gntiporc Servicios Tecnicos S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Labour services 100% PIC Servicios Agropecuarios, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Labour services 100% GIL Finance S.. r. l. Luxembourg Provision of finance 100% PIG Datendienst GmbH Germany Data analysis 50% ABS International, Inc. United States Holding company 100% ABS Pecplan Ltda.
Brazil Holding company 100% Brazilian Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Fyfield SM Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Fyfield Holland B. V. Netherlands Holding company 100% Genus Animal Health Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Genus Investments Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% PIC UK Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% PIC Do Brasil Empreendimentos e Participaes Ltda.
Brazil Holding company 100% PIC Fyfield Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Pig Improvement Company Overseas Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Premium Genetics UK Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Premium Genetics Limited Ireland Holding company 100% Sygen, Inc. United States Holding company 100% Sygen International Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% Agence Spillers N. V. Belgium Dormant 100% Bellapais Farm Limited Cyprus Dormant 34.1% Bellapais Hatcheries Limited Cyprus Dormant 34.1% BioScience Network Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Brazilian Properties Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Busby Partipacoes Ltda.
Brazil Dormant 100% Canavarro Participacoes Ltda.
Brazil Dormant 100% Dalco Exportadora Ltda.
Brazil Dormant 100% Dalgety Pension Trust Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Elmira ABC Ltd. Canada Dormant 100% Fyfield Dormant United Kingdom Dormant 100% Fyfield Ireland Limited Ireland Dormant 100% Genus Americas, Inc. United States Dormant 100% Genus Consulting Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Genus Quest Trustees Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Genus Trustees Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% National Pig Development Company Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% PIC Benelux B. V. Netherlands Dormant 100% Pig Improvement Company Far East Limited Hong Kong Dormant 100% Pigtales Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Progen Ltd United Kingdom Dormant 100% Skogluno Participacoes Ltda.
Brazil Dormant 100% Spedivet Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Spillers Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Spillers Overseas Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100% Spratts GmbH Germany Dormant 100% SyAqua Mxico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Dormant 100% Sygen Investimentos Ltda.
Brazil Dormant 100% Usicaf SA Switzerland Dormant 100% Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 139 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 37.
Acquisition of subsidiaries On 1 September 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Birchwood Genetics, Inc. a porcine distribution company with three sites located in Ohio, Michigan and Kentucky in North America.
Birchwood has been a PIC partner for over 14 years.
It focuses on providing male PIC genetics in a service-and-product package that generates consistent, valuable results helping to build and sustain the success of the midand small-sized customers it serves.
This acquisition helps secure PICs long-term distribution of proprietary boar genetics to customers in North America.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below.
m Intangible assets Customer relationship 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Financial assets 0.5 Financial liabilities 1.9 Total identifiable assets 2.7 Goodwill 3.1 Total consideration 5.8 Satisfied by: Net cash outflow arising on acquisition of subsidiary 5.8 The goodwill of 3.1m arising from the acquisition consists largely of future growth and synergies expected from combining the acquired operations with existing Genus operations.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of 0.5m and a gross contractual value of 0.7m.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the cash flows unlikely to be collected is 0.2m.
Acquisition and integration related costs included within exceptional items amount to 0.3m.
Birchwood Genetics, Inc. contributed 7.8m revenue and 1.0m profit to the Group for the period between date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of Birchwood Genetics, Inc. had been completed on the first day of the financial period, Group revenues and Group profit would have been 9.0m and 1.2m, respectively.
On 31 March 2015 the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of In Vitro Brasil S. A. IVB for a total investment consideration of BRL 20m 4.5m.
Genus also expects to acquire the remaining 49% of IVBs share capital in the first half of 2018 by exercising a call option.
The consideration is subject to certain performance conditions and is to be capped at a maximum of BRL 49m 10.0m.
The selling shareholders also have a matching put option.
IVB is a leading biotechnology company focused on the production of bovine embryos through in-vitro fertilisation and the provision of associated services.
IVB is based in Brazil and also operates in a number of countries including the US, Colombia and Uruguay.
m Intangible assets identified Technology 3.5 Customer relationship and trade name 0.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.6 Financial assets 3.6 Financial liabilities 2.1 Total identifiable assets 6.1 Attributable to non-controlling interest 3.8 Share of identifiable assets 2.3 Goodwill 2.2 Total consideration 4.5 Satisfied by: Net cash outflow arising on acquisition of subsidiary 4.5 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 140 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2015 37.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued The goodwill of 2.2m arising from the acquisition consists largely of future growth and synergies expected from combining the acquired operations with existing Genus operations.
The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of 1.1m and a gross contractual value of 1.3m.
Acquisition and integration related costs included within exceptional items amount to 0.9m.
IVB contributed 2.3m revenue and 0.8m profit after tax to the Group for the period between date of acquisition and the balance sheet date, which includes 0.5m attributable to non-controlling interest.
Due to the transactions nature, it is impracticable to obtain the information required to disclose what the Groups revenues and profit would have been, if the acquisition of IVB had been completed on the first day of the financial period.
Non-controlling interest 2015 m Non-controlling interest 4.3 Put option over non-controlling interest see note 37 10.0 Total non-controlling interest 5.7 Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Groups subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interest is set out below.
The summarised financial information below represents amounts before intra-Group eliminations.
IVB Group 2015 m Current assets 3.9 Non-current assets 4.4 Current liabilities 2.5 Non-current liabilities Net assets 5.8 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 1.7 Non-controlling interest for IVB Group 4.1 Other non-controlling interest 0.2 Non-controlling interest 4.3 No dividends were paid to non-controlling interests.
