INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus For each of the areas of complexity identified within the Assessment of the accounting position adopted on the provisional opening balance sheet, we validated the fair value opening balance sheet accounting for the Fokker adjustments recognised by the Directors to check that they were acquisition in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and in accordance Refer to pages 18 to 21 GKN Aerospace review, pages 40 to 47 with the sale and purchase agreement.
In particular: Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 70 For the valuation of non-operating intangible assets we to 75 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies assessed the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts and presentation andnote 30 Business combinations.
supporting the intangible valuation, being sales volumes, The Group completed the acquisition of Fokker on 28 October pricing and margin and validated them to contractually agreed 2015. sales volumes and prices, externally produced aircraft delivery forecasts as well as through reference to historical We focused on this area because the accounting treatment for performance levels.
We also engaged, and evaluated the work the provisional opening balance sheet position is inherently of, our specialists to validate the assumptions underlying the judgmental and requires the Directors to exercise many calculation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets judgements over the valuation of intangible assets, fair value generated by the Directors external valuation experts: adjustments on identifiable assets, completeness and accuracy We also assessed the inputs used by the Directors to calculate of liabilities and the calculation of associated goodwill of the discount rate and royalty rates applied and assessed them 101 million.
by using our specialists to draw comparison with a selection of comparable organisations.
We also benchmarked this against the rates used for previous acquisitions, to ensure that these were comparable: For the fair value exercise in relation to property, plant and equipment and inventories, we verified the assumptions to external market data or internal corroborative evidence.
We attended physical inventory counts at key locations and assessed the degree of completion of work in progress: and For liabilities recognised, we evaluated the assessment and calculation of material provisions to check that they reflected information that was known in relation to events that existed at the transaction date.
We also checked that the Directors had considered a range of potential outcomes.
We assessed the completeness of the Directors list of liabilities using our knowledge of the business, enquiries of the Directors, examining correspondence with customers, suppliers and legal counsel and reading the sale and purchase agreement.
We note that the generated goodwill of 101 million is the residual value of the consideration over and above the fair value of the acquired net assets.
We consider that the Directors assessment of the fair value of the provisional opening balance sheet of the Fokker acquisition to be supportable.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four segments being GKN Aerospace, GKN Driveline, GKN Powder Metallurgy and GKN Land Systems with each division set up to manage operations on both a regional and functional basis and consisting of a number of reporting units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 246 active reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
These reporting units maintain their own accounting records and controlsand report to the head office finance team in the UK through an integrated consolidation system.
GKN Aerospace reporting units are based predominantly in the UK, the USA, Sweden and the Netherlands.
GKN Driveline reporting units are based in 22 countries with Europe and North America being the largest regions as well as a large joint venture in China.
GKN Powder Metallurgy reporting units are based predominantly in North America with other sites in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
GKN Land Systems reporting units are based predominantly in Europe and North America.
GKN plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
