About GSK Cautionary statement regarding GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an forward-looking statements The Groups reports led with or furnished to the US English public limited company on 6 December Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral 1999.
We were formed by a merger between statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not plc.
GSK acquired these two English companies relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future arrangements.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or Our shares are listed on the London Stock results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Group Read more at www.
com undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes and or les with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors that are beyond the Groups control or precise estimate.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages 231 to 240 of this Annual Report.
Any Here you will nd downloadable PDFs of: forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date they are made and are Annual Report 2015 based upon the knowledge and information available to the Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Form 20-F A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business.
These measures are dened Responsible Business Supplement 2015 on page 54 and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 62.
The information in this document does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other investment activities.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook In outlining the expectations for the five-year period 2016- 2020, the Group has made certain assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different markets in which the Group operates and the delivery of revenues and financial benets from its current portfolio, pipeline and restructuring programmes.
For the Group specically, over the period to 2020 GSK Brand names Notice regarding limitations on expects further declines in sales of Seretide Advair.
The Director Liability under English Law Brand names appearing in italics introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has throughout this report are trade marks Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits been factored into the Groups assessment of its future either owned by and or licensed to the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and performance.
The Group assumes no premature loss of GSK or associated companies, with the omissions from the Directors Report for which see exclusivity for other key products over the period.
The exception of Prolia, owned by Amgen, page 101, the Strategic report and the Remuneration Groups expectation of at least 6 billion of revenues per Zofran, owned by Novartis, Trumenba report.
Under English law the Directors would be liable to annum on a CER basis by 2020 from products launched in and Mencevax, owned by Pzer, Treximet, the company, but not to any third party, if one or more of the last three years includes contributions from the current owned by Pernix Ireland, Lucozade and these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness pipeline asset Shingrix.
This target is now expected to be Ribena, owned by Suntory and Nimenrix, or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a met up to two years earlier.
The Group also expects volume a trade mark of GSK licensed to Pzer.
material fact, but would otherwise not be liable.
Pages 73 demand for its products to increase, particularly in Emerging to 101, 130, 211 and 231 to 258 inclusive comprise the Markets.
Acknowledgements Directors Report, pages 2 to 72 inclusive comprise the The assumptions for the Groups revenue and earnings Strategic report and pages 102 to 126 inclusive comprise Printing expectations assume no material mergers, acquisitions, the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001. disposals, litigation costs or share repurchases for the up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon FSC certied and Carbon Neutral.
Company: and no change in the Groups shareholdings in English company law and the liabilities of the Directors ViiV Healthcare or Consumer Healthcare.
They also assume in connection with these reports shall be subject to the Paper no material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
This Annual Report is printed on environment.
Amadeus 100 Silk, a 100% recycled Website paper with full FSC certication.
All pulps The Groups expectations assume successful delivery of the used are made from 100% fide-inked, GSKs website www.
com gives additional information Groups integration and restructuring plans over the period post-consumer waste and are elemental on the Group.
Notwithstanding the references we make 2016-2020.
Material costs for investment in new product chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill in this Annual Report to GSKs website, none of the launches and R&D have been factored into the expectations holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel information made available on the website constitutes part given.
The expectations are given on a constant currency certicates for environmental of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated basis and assume no material change to the Groups management.
GSK Annual Report 2015 Head Ofce and Registered Ofce www.
com GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS You can also search for us here United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792
