INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 65, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be report.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 70 to 75, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters report.
communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 65 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing material to Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, add or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material to Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so add or to draw attention to.
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
GKN plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
