Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards 1 Presentation of the financial statements An amendment to IAS 19 Dened benefit plans: Employee Description of business contribution was issued in November 2013 and was implemented GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the by GSK from 1 January 2015.
The amendment provides additional creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing guidance on the treatment of contributions to dened benefit of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, over-the-counter plans from employees and third parties and has no material impact OTC medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs on the current period.
principal pharmaceutical products include medicines in the Financial period following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, central nervous These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials, to 31 December 2015, with comparative gures for the financial dermatology, rare diseases, immuno-inammation, vaccines years from 1 January to 31 December 2014 and, where and HIV.
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2013.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS Parent company financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK International Accounting Standards IAS and International accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214. as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
2 Accounting principles and policies Composition of financial statements Consolidation The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, The consolidated financial statements include: the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash ows, with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts comprise: the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates Consolidated income statement and joint ventures Consolidated statement of comprehensive income the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Consolidated balance sheet of joint operations.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to 31 December each year.
Consolidated cash ow statement Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant Notes to the financial statements.
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Composition of the Group control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the as subsidiaries.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal are accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the Group companies.
ability to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the Accounting principles and policies arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint The financial statements have been prepared using the historical operation.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise significant cost convention modied by the revaluation of certain items, as inuence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint The financial statements have been prepared in accordance ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board statements using the equity method of accounting.
The and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Information on the application of these accounting policies, of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
Key accounting judgements and estimates.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated generally accepted accounting principles requires management from the date control ceases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
