NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended December Accounting policies and presentation Foreign currencies The Groups significant accounting policies are summarisedbelow.
Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences Basis of preparation sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange The consolidated financial statements the statements have rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the been prepared in accordance with International Financial transaction except in the case of material transactions when Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the the European Union.
These statements have been prepared under underlying substance of the transaction.
Where practicable, the historical cost method except where other measurement bases transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward are required to be applied under IFRS as set out below.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet These statements have been prepared using all standards date.
Such transactional exchange dierences are taken into andinterpretations required for financial periods beginning account in determining profit before tax.
No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required implementation date.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are Standards, revisions and amendments to standards treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are and interpretations recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with balances are recognised through the income statement.
an eective date in 2015 with no material impact on its results, assets and liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated to sterling at average Basis of consolidation exchange rates except in the case of material transactions when The statements incorporate the financial statements of the the actual spot rate is used where it more accurately reflects the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and the underlying substance of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities are Groups share of the results and equity of its joint ventures and translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
associates together equity accounted investments.
During 2014 Such translational exchange dierences are taken to equity.
the Group did not have any material associates, but through its acquisition in the year see note 30 it now has one such profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net investment.
This has necessitated a change to the narrative only.
investments include the accumulated net exchange dierences that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
the Company has control through the power to govern financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from their activities.
Presentation of the income statement This power is accompanied by a shareholding of more than 50% IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold statement.
Line items and subtotals have been presented on during the year are included in the Groups results from the date theface of the income statement in addition to those required of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
combination are measured at fair value.
Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses share of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
order to achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating profit is analysed to show separately the Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders results of normal trading performance and individually significant earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders.
Such items arise because of their size or nature and comprise: Equity accounted investments Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from financial and operating policies.
In all cases voting rights are 50% events that are significant to any reportable segment or lower.
Associated undertakings are entities, being neither a amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets subsidiary nor a joint venture, where the Group has a significant arising on business combinations influence.
Equity accounted investments are accounted for by the changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments equity method.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill and material currency translation movements arising on arising on acquisition.
intra-Group funding gains or losses on changes in Group structure which do not meet the denition of discontinued operations or which the Group views as capital rather than revenue in nature GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 these relate to services performed up to the reporting date: 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued achievement of contractual milestones where appropriate: or flying Presentation of the income statement continued hours or equivalent for long-term aftermarket arrangements.
profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, In most RRSP contracts there are two separate phases where the changes in estimates of contingent consideration made after the Group earns revenue: sale of products principally to engine provisional fair value period and material expenses and charges manufacturers and aftermarket support.
Due to the nature of the incurred on a business combination industry, the sale of products to engine manufacturers can be significant pension scheme curtailments and settlements.
deeply discounted with more favourable pricing in the aftermarket phase.
The Group accounts for the sale of product in early phases The Groups post-tax share of equity accounted investment earnings of contracts distinct from the sale of product service in the is shown as a separate component of profit before tax.
This generally has the effect of lower margins share of material restructuring and impairment charges, amortisation recognised during the early phase of contracts with higher of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets arising on margins earned during the aftermarket phase.
The Group does not business combinations and other net financing charges and their believe that margin should be spread evenly over the two distinct related taxation are separately identified, in the related note.
phases of RRSP contracts or that accounting losses should be deferred, because it does not consider there is sufficient Net financing costs are analysed to show separately interest contractual certainty over the future revenue, should programme payable, interest receivable and other net financing charges.
Other net financing charges include the interest charge on net defined benefit plans, specific changes in fair value on net Design and build investment hedges and unwind of discounts on fair value amounts This revenue stream impacts a discrete number of businesses, established on business combinations.
primarily in the GKN Aerospace segment but also on a smaller scale in the GKN Automotive segment.
Generally revenue is only Revenue recognition recognised on the sale of product as detailed above, however, on Sales occasions cash is received in advance of work performed to Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the compensate the Group for costs incurred in design and consideration receivable which generally equates to the invoiced development activities.
Where such amounts are received and the amount, excluding sales taxes and net of allowances for returns, risk and rewards of ownership over the development assets are early settlement discounts and rebates.
The Group has three not deemed to have been transferred, amounts are deferred on principal revenue streams: the balance sheet in customer advances and deferred income and taken to revenue as the Group performs its contractual Sales of product obligations either on delivery of product or milestones.
This revenue stream accounts for the overwhelming majority of Group sales.
Contracts in the Automotive and Land Systems Due to the nature of the design and build contracts there can be segments operate almost exclusively on this basis, and it also significant learning curves whilst the Group optimises its covers a high proportion of Aerospace revenues.
During this early phase of these contracts, all costs including any start-up losses are taken directly to the Invoices for goods are raised when the risks and rewards of income statement.
ownership have passed which, dependent upon contractual terms, may be at the point of despatch, acceptance by the Other income customer or, in Aerospace, certification by the customer.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Many businesses in GKN Automotive and GKN Land Systems recognise an element of revenue via a surcharge or similar raw Sales and other income is recognised in the income statement material cost recovery mechanism.
The surcharge invoiced or when it can be reliably measured and its collectability is credited is generally based on prior period movement in raw reasonably assured.
material price indices applied to current period deliveries.
Other cost recoveries are recorded according to the customer Property, plant and equipment agreement.
In those instances where recovery of such increases is Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated guaranteed, irrespective of the level of future deliveries, revenue depreciation and impairment charges.
is recognised, or due allowance made, in the same period as the costmovement takes place.
Cost Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs bringing the asset into use and borrowing costs on qualifying This revenue stream impacts a small number of businesses, assets, defined as an asset or programme where the period of exclusively in the Aerospace segment.
Revenue is recognised under capitalisation is more than 12 months and the capital value is RRSPs for both the sale of product as detailed above and sales of more than 25 million.
Where freehold and long leasehold services, which are recognised by reference to the stage of properties were carried at valuation on 23 March 2000, these completion based on services performed to date.
The assessment values have been retained as book values and therefore deemed of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the cost at the date of the IFRS transition.
contract, but will generally be based on: costs incurred to the extent GKN plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance Derivative financial instruments sheet date they are classied as capital work in progress.
The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments.
Transfers are made to other asset categories when they are Derivative financial instruments including forward foreign available for use.
currency contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are used by the Group to manage its exposure to risk associated Depreciation with the variability in cash flows in relation to both recognised Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or capital work in assets or liabilities or forecast transactions.
In the case of all other categories of property, plant and financial instruments are measured at the balance sheet date equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over at their fairvalue.
the course of the financial year from the date the asset is available for use.
Where derivative financial instruments are not designated as or not determined to be eective hedges, any gain or loss on Depreciation is applied to specic classes of asset so as to reduce remeasurement is taken to the income statement.
Where them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, derivative financial instruments are designated as and are which are reviewed annually.
eective as cash flow hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is held in equity and recycled through the income statement when The range of depreciation lives are: the designated item is transacted, unless related to the purchase of a business, when recycled against consideration.
Where Years derivative financial instruments are designated as and are Freehold buildings Up to eective as net investment hedges, any gain or loss on Steel powder production plant remeasurement is held in equity and only recycled when the General plant, machinery, xtures and ttings to underlying investment is sold or disposed.
Computers to Commercial vehicles and cars to Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments no longer designated as eective hedges are taken directly to the incomestatement.
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed at least annually for indications of impairment.
Where an impairment charge arises in Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are the ordinary course of business it is recorded in trading profit.
If recognised at their fair value when the nature, characteristics and an impairment charge arises as a part of a wider review of a cash risks of the derivative are not closely related to the host contract.
generating unit it is presented separately within operating profit.
Gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each balance sheet date are taken to the Financial assets and liabilities income statement.
Financial liabilities are recorded in arrangements where payments, or similar transfers of financial resources, are Goodwill unavoidable or guaranteed.
Goodwill consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the identiable intangible and Borrowings are measured initially at fair value which usually tangible assets net of the fair value of the liabilities including equates to proceeds received and includes transaction costs.
contingencies of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Acquisition related expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and overdras together with highly liquid investments Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is of less than 90 days maturity.
Other financial assets comprise recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on the investments with more than 90 days until maturity.
Unless an acquisition of an equity accounted investment is included in the enforceable right of set-o exists and there is an intention to net carrying value of the investment.
settle, the components of cash and cash equivalents are reflected on a gross basis in the balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised Other financial assets and liabilities, including short-term impairment losses that arise from the annual assessment of its receivables and payables, are initially recognised at fair value and carrying value.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment recoverable amount, determined as the higher of estimated provision unless the impact of the time value of money is discounted future net cash flows or recoverable amount on a fair considered to be material.
value less cost of disposal basis, goodwill is written down to the recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net Other intangible assets realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete or Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated slow-moving items.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out or amortisation and impairment charges.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and the relevant proportion of works Development costs and participation fees overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Net realisable value Where development expenditure results in a new or substantially is the estimated selling price less estimated selling costs and improved product or process and it is probable that this costs to complete.
expenditure will be recovered, it is capitalised.
Cost comprises development expenditure and borrowing costs on qualifying Taxation assets or fair value on initial recognition when as a result of a Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income business combination.
In addition, payments made to engine statement unless they relate to items recognised directly in other manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers for comprehensive income when the related tax is also recognised in participation fees relating to risk and revenue sharing other comprehensive income.
partnerships and long-term agreements, are carried forward in intangible assets to the extent that they can be recovered from Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences future sales.
resulting from the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements and its Amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for tax base.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected manner use.
In Aerospace, amortisation is charged over the assets life up of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets to a maximum of 15 years for all programmes other than risk and and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at revenue sharing partnerships where a maximum life of 25 years is the balance sheet date.
assumed, either on a straight line basis or, where sufficient contractual terms exist providing clarity over volumes that do not Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reflect a linear progression, a unit of production method is are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will applied.
In Automotive, amortisation is charged on a straight line be recovered against future taxable profits.
basis over the assets life up to a maximum of seven years.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of joint Capitalised development costs, including participation fees, are ventures.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits subject to annual impairment reviews with any resulting of overseas branches and subsidiaries except to the extent that it impairments charged to the income statement.
is probable that such earnings will be remitted to the parent in the foreseeable future.
Research expenditure and development expenditure not qualifying for capitalisation is written off as incurred.
Pensions and post-employment benefits The Groups pension arrangements comprise various defined Computer software benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, In the UK and in certain overseas companies pension plant or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit intangible assets.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs schemes, the contributions to which are based on the advice of directly incurred in bringing the asset into use.
Amortisation is independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life schemes.
In other overseas companies funds are retained within which is in the range of three to five years.
the business to provide for retirement obligations.
Assets acquired on business combinations The Group also operates a number of defined contribution and non-operating intangible assets defined benefit arrangements which provide certain employees Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that are with defined post-employment healthcare benefits.
acquired as a result of a business combination, which arise from contractual or other legal rights and are not transferable or The Group accounts for all post-employment defined benefit separable.
On initial recognition they are measured at fair value.
schemes through recognition of the schemes surpluses or deficits Amortisation is charged on a straight line basis to the income on the balance sheet at the end of each year.
Remeasurement of statement over their expected useful lives which are: defined benefit plans is included in other comprehensive income.
Years Current and past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognised within operating profit.
Interest charges on net defined Marketing related assets brands and trademarks 20-50 benefit plans are recognised in other net financing charges.
agreements not to compete Life of agreement Customer related assets For defined contribution arrangements the cost charged to the order backlog Length of backlog income statement represents the Groups contributions to the other customer contracts and relationships 2-25 relevant schemes in the year in which they fall due.
Technology based assets 5-25 GKN plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Government refundable advances Standards, revisions and amendments to standards Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other and interpretations issued but not yet adopted payables in the balance sheet.
Refundable advances include The Group does not intend to adopt any standard, revision or amounts advanced by Government, accrued interest and directly amendment before the required implementation date.
At the date attributable costs.
Refundable advances are provided to the of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Group to part-finance expenditures on specic development standards which have not been applied in these financial programmes.
The advances are provided on a risk sharing basis, statements were in issue but not yet eective and in some cases i. e. repayment levels are determined subject to the success of the had not yet been adopted by the EU : related programme.
Interest is calculated using the eective interest rate method.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments eective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers eective from Share-based payments 1 January 2018 Share options granted to employees and share-based IFRS 16 Leases eective from 1 January 2019. arrangements put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant or award using an appropriate option pricing These standards and other revisions to standards and model and are charged to operating profit over the performance or interpretations which have an implementation date in 2017 or vesting period of the scheme.
The annual charge is modied to thereaer are still being assessed.
take account of shares forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely the The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates, subjective judgement and Provisions assumptions that may aect the amounts of assets and liabilities Provisions for onerous or loss making contracts, warranty at the balance sheet date and reported profit and earnings for the exposures, environmental matters, restructuring, employee year.
The Directors base these estimates, judgements and obligations and legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a assumptions on a combination of past experience, professional present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to the particular it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle circumstance.
the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties Accounting policies where the Directors consider the more and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not complex estimates, judgements and assumptions have to be recognised for future operating losses.
made are those in respect of business combinations note 30, post-employment obligations note 24, derivative and other Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures financial instruments notes 4b and 20, taxation note 6, expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax provisions note 21 and impairment of non-current assets discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time note11c.
Details of the principal judgements, assumptions and value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
Any estimates made are set out in the related notes as identied.
increase in provisions due to discounting, only recorded where material, is recognised as interest expense within other net nancing charges.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
