Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance review relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 98, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of for and on behalf of  LLP these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were Birmingham initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 22 February 2016 of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
GKN plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
