Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Disclosure of information to auditors Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors in ofce at the date of this Annual Report have each in relation to the companys financial confirmed that: statements so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, of which the companys auditors are unaware: and GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial relevant audit information and to establish that the companys statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors auditors are aware of that information.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Going concern basis parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered position and profit or loss of the company for that period.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate consistently: Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable as described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 80 and prudent: to 101.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the state with regard to the parent company financial statements information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, position and performance, business model and strategy.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the auditors have considered the Directors statement of prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue Governance Code which are specified for their review.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that Philip Hampton the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report Chairman comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible 16 March 2016 for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2015 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 213 to 216 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on page 212.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report, which represent the management report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
