Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements continued Intellectual property 45 Legal proceedings Advair HFA, Flovent HFA, Ventolin HFA The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative On 29 September 2015, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Mylan led a proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, petition for an Inter Partes Review IPR with the United States tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related Patent and Trademark Ofce USPTO seeking to invalidate a private litigation.
The Group makes provision for these proceedings patent covering the surfactant-free formulation and its use in the on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Accounting principles hydrouoroalkane HFA metered dose inhalers for Advair, Flovent and policies and Note 29, Other provisions.
The Group may and Ventolin.
The Group exclusively licenses the patent from 3M become involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of and has the first right to enforce and defend it.
The patent, which which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected expires on 1 December 2021, is listed in the Orange Book.
The financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of Group led a Patent Owners Preliminary Response opposing the the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosures about institution of the IPR on 6 January 2015.
A decision on institution is such cases would be included, but no provision would be made.
The patent that Mylan has challenged is just one of a number of patents covering Advair, Flovent and Ventolin With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, and their use in HFA metered dose inhalers.
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial Men B vaccines Bexsero effect at this stage.
The Group does not believe that information Following its acquisition of the Novartis Vaccine business, the about the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would Group has taken over litigation originally led by Novartis against be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due Pzer, Inc. Pzer in the UK, Italy and the United States related to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of to meningococcal B Men B vaccines.
On 18 February 2015, proceedings, the entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and Novartis led suit against Pzer in the UK High Court Patents clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law.
Court for a declaration that a European patent owned by Pzer was not infringed by Bexsero and was invalid.
The Group assumed Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and responsibility for this matter on 27 April 2015.
Pzer led a enforceability of the Groups patents on various products or Statement of Defence on 27 May 2015 and counterclaimed for processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those infringement.
Trial in the matter commenced on 7 March 2016. patents.
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue.
The consequences of any such On 18 February 2015, Novartis led suit against Pzer in the loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and Court of Rome for a declaration that a European patent owned by could materially affect future results of operations for the Group.
Pzer was not infringed by Bexsero and was invalid.
The Group has assumed responsibility for this matter.
The Group is also Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims prosecuting a lawsuit against Pzer, originally led by Novartis, are charged to selling, general and administration costs.
Provisions for a declaration that a European patent issued to Pzer related are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist to meningitis B vaccines is not infringed by Bexsero.
advice, where an outow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the On 18 February 2015, Novartis led suit against Pzer in the dispute.
For certain product liability claims, the Group will make US District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent a provision where there is sufficient history of claims made and infringement.
The complaint asserts six patents against Pzer, settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of alleging that Pzers sale of Trumenba infringes those patents.
the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
At 31 December Trumenba is indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive 2015, the Groups aggregate provision for legal and other disputes disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B.
On not including tax matters described in Note 14, Taxation was 27 April 2015, the Group led a First Amended Complaint against 0.4 billion.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the Pzer reasserting the six patents originally asserted by Novartis, amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation but also asserting one additional recently-granted patent.
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
Infringement contentions were served by the Group on 29 October 2015: Pzer served non-infringement and invalidity contentions on The Groups position could change over time, and, therefore, 18 December 2015.
The Group responded to Pzers invalidity there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the contentions on 5 February 2016.
No dates have been set for outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material summary judgment motions or trial.
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial statements.
If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting period in which the judgments are incurred or the settlements entered into.
The most significant of these matters are described below.
206 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information In May 2015, Mylan led an action in the UK Patents Court 45 Legal proceedings continued alleging that the patent covering the combination of lamivudine and Coreg CR abacavir for Kivexa is invalid.
They also allege that the SPC based Mylan sent a Paragraph IV certication, dated 26 August 2015, upon the patent is invalid because it was not the first marketing to the Group and Flamel Ireland Ltd. Flamel stating that it had authorisation for the combination, alleging instead that the prior submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA to the approval of Trizivir was the first.
Trial is scheduled for May 2016.
US Food and Drug Administration FDA seeking approval of a In addition, Mylan has challenged the combination patent and generic version of Coreg CR.
The notice asserted that the patents associated SPC in France, Italy and Portugal.
No trial dates have listed in the Orange Book for Coreg CR were either invalid or not been set in these jurisdictions.
On 9 October 2015, Flamel led a Lexiva civil complaint in the US District Court for the Northern District of On 10 December 2014, Lupin led a petition with the USPTO for West Virginia alleging that Mylans product infringes Flamels an IPR alleging that the patent covering the active ingredient for Orange Book-listed extended release formulation patent which Lexiva is invalid.
ViiV Healthcare led a Patent Owners Preliminary expires 11 March 2026.
The Group is the exclusive licensee of this Response opposing the petition on 12 April 2015.
On 9 July 2015, patent for Coreg CR.
Mylan answered on 18 December 2015, the USPTO granted in-part and denied in-part the petition for an asserting that Flamels patent was invalid or not infringed.
Signicantly, the USPTO denied the petition for the basic also led a third party complaint against the Group requesting a compound claims covering Lexiva, while granting the petition for declaration that the Groups patent on carvedilol phosphate other claims in the patent.
On 24 July 2015, Lupin requested hemihydrate is invalid or not infringed.
A scheduling conference reconsideration of the decision not to initiate review of the claims has been set for 12 May 2016. specically covering Lexiva.
On 14 October 2015, ViiV Healthcare Epzicom Kivexa Trizivir requested adverse judgment as to the claims upon which review On 6 February 2014, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin was granted effectively cancelling those claims.
On 2 November Limited Lupin had led an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV 2015, the USPTO denied Lupins motion for reconsideration and, certication for Epzicom, alleging that the three patents listed in on 3 November 2015, the USPTO cancelled the requested claims the Orange Book for Epzicom are either invalid, unenforceable or and terminated the IPR, leaving the claims covering Lexiva intact.
ViiV Healthcare led suit against Lupin on 3 March On 4 February 2016, Lupin led a new petition for an IPR on the 2014, alleging infringement of both the patent covering the remaining claims.
A Patent Owners Preliminary Response is due combination of lamivudine and abacavir and the patent covering 11 May 2016. the hemisulfate salt of abacavir.
ViiV Healthcare settled with Lupin Product liability on 22 June 2015, and the case was dismissed on 7 August 2015.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the On 2 June 2014, Apotex led a Petition requesting an Inter Partes development of potential products to determine the safety and Review IPR of the combination patent covering Epzicom and efcacy of products for use by humans following approval by Trizivir.
The USPTO granted the petition on 8 December 2014 regulatory bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and which initiated the IPR.
On 8 January 2015, Teva led a petition vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety with the USPTO to join the proceeding.
ViiV Healthcare led an issues may become, or be claimed by some to be, evident.
The opposition to Tevas joinder motion on 3 April 2015, and Tevas Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability motion to join was denied on 25 June 2015.
On 29 July 2015, lawsuits related to the Groups Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and ViiV Healthcare and Apotex settled the case, and the USPTO Consumer Healthcare products.
The most significant of these terminated the IPR on 3 August 2015. matters are described below.
Teva Canada and Apotex each led Notices of Allegation The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the challenging patents for Kivexa lamivudine abacavir listed on expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category the Canadian Patent Register.
ViiV Healthcare led suit for and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below infringement against Teva on 12 September 2013 under the in the provision for legal and other disputes.
Matters for which the patents covering abacavir hemisulfate and the combination of Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other lamivudine and abacavir.
ViiV Healthcare led suit against Apotex provisions.
on 31 January 2014 under the patent covering abacavir hemisulfate and on 14 March 2014 for infringement of the patent covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir.
ViiV Healthcare settled the case against Teva on 24 April 2015 and against Apotex on 29 July 2015.
Teva also challenged the claims of the combination patent covering Kivexa in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
The combination patent expires across Europe in 2016.
In addition, ViiV Healthcare has a corresponding Supplementary Protection Certicate SPC for Kivexa that does not expire until late 2019.
Teva also challenged the validity of the SPC.
ViiV Healthcare reached a settlement with Teva in May 2015 and the litigation was terminated.
GSK Annual Report 2015 207 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements continued Acts of violence 45 Legal proceedings continued As of February 2016, there were six pending matters concerning Avandia allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil committed The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence.
Trial on one of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use of these cases is scheduled for 19 September 2016. of Avandia.
The federal cases led against the Group are part of a Discontinuation multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court In the UK, in late 2010, due to poor prospects of success, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania the MDL Court.
Cases public funding of Seroxat claimants who had alleged withdrawal have also been led in a number of state courts.
The majority of the claimants discontinued As of February 2016, the Group has reached agreements to settle their claims.
In 2011, about 120 claimants appealed the decision the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the to the Special Cases Review Panel.
The Special Cases Review US.
Fifteen purported class actions on Avandia are pending in Panel denied the appeal, and the public funding certicate was Canada.
discharged by the Legal Aid Agency on 29 January 2015.
One hundred and three cases remain.
These were the subject of a There are four purported class actions seeking economic damages hearing held on 14 December 2015.
The judgement from the on behalf of third party payers TPPs asserting claims arising hearing was published on 4 February 2016 and allowed the under various state and federal laws, including the Racketeer remaining claims to continue under court management.
A further Inuenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO, state unfair case management conference is expected by the summer.
trade practices and or consumer protection laws.
The MDL Court has consolidated these four actions for pre-trial proceedings, and Zofran has appointed a Plaintiffs Steering Committee.
The Group is ling Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result a petition for writ of certiorari in the United States Supreme Court of the mothers ingestion of Zofran and or generic ondansetron for seeking review of the Third Circuits decision that the TPPs state pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
Plaintiffs assert that the a valid cause of action.
Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran off-label The sole remaining consumer class action, brought on behalf of for use by pregnant women.
As of February 2016, the Group is Missouri residents, was dismissed by the MDL Court: the Third a defendant in 226 personal injury lawsuits brought on behalf of Circuit has afrmed the MDLs decision dismissing the action.
236 individual plaintiffs in the US.
All 221 federal cases are part As a result, no consumer class actions remain.
of a multi-district litigation proceeding MDL in the District of Seroxat Paxil and Paxil CR Massachusetts.
The Group is also a defendant in four proposed The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging class actions in Canada, which are in their early stages.
Class that use of Paxil paroxetine has caused a variety of injuries.
certication issues in these cases have not yet been addressed.
Most of these lawsuits contain one or more of the following On 27 January 2016, the MDL court issued an order denying the allegations: i that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused Groups motion to dismiss all claims of the grounds that they are congenital malformations or persistent pulmonary hypertension: preempted under federal law.
The Group may renew the motion at ii that Paxil treatment caused patients to commit suicidal or a later date.
The MDL continues with monthly status conferences violent acts: and iii that the Group failed to warn that patients where issues such as the sufciency of the pleadings and the could experience certain symptoms on discontinuing Paxil scope of discovery will be addressed.
Pregnancy The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the US claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of February 2016, but a number of claims related to use during pregnancy are still pending in various courts in the US.
Other matters have been dismissed without payment.
Currently, there are twelve trials scheduled in 2016.
There are two proposed, and one certied, class actions in Canada.
The action that has been certied as a national class action is in British Columbia and relates to cardiovascular defects.
An appeal from that certication decision was dismissed in October 2013, and the case is scheduled to be tried in October 2016.
208 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Average wholesale price 45 Legal proceedings continued State Attorneys General in Wisconsin and Illinois have led suit Sales and marketing and regulation against the Group and a number of other pharmaceutical The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the companies claiming damages and restitution due to average expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category, wholesale price AWP and or wholesale acquisition cost WAC and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
Matters for which Medicaid programmes.
These cases allege that the Group the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC prices, provisions.
which, in turn, allegedly caused state Medicaid agencies to reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than SEC DOJ and SFO Anti-corruption enquiries the agencies intended.
The states have sought recovery on behalf The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the US of the states as payers and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state Department of Justice DOJ initiated an industry-wide enquiry in patients as consumers.
The Group has reached a settlement 2010 into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in with the State of Wisconsin resolving all claims in the matter.
violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA relating The Illinois case is ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set.
to the sale of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia.
Cidra third-party payer litigation The Group is one of the companies that has been asked to respond On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers to this enquiry and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ.
The led suit against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Group has informed the DOJ and SEC about the investigation of its County Court of Common Pleas seeking compensation for China operations by the Chinese government that was initiated in reimbursements they made for medicines manufactured at 2013 and the outcome of that investigation.
The Group also has the Groups former Cidra plant in Puerto Rico.
These insurers briefed the DOJ and SEC regarding other countries and issues.
claim that the Group knowingly and illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under conditions non-compliant The Group also has advised the UK Serious Fraud Ofce SFO with cGMP current good manufacturing practices and that they, regarding the investigation of its China operations by the Chinese as third-party insurers, were unlawfully induced to pay for them.
government and the outcome of that investigation.
The SFO The suit alleges both US federal and various state law causes of has requested information from the Group on its commercial action.
operations in a number of countries.
On 27 May 2014, the SFO informed the Group that it had formally opened a criminal The case had been stayed pending the decision of the US Court investigation into the Groups practices.
The Group is responding of Appeals for the Third Circuit on an overlapping, potentially to the SFOs requests.
The Group is unable to make a reliable dispositive issue in the Groups third-party payer litigation estimate of the expected financial effect of these investigations, regarding Avandia.
As a result of the Third Circuits denial of and no provision has been made for them.
the Groups petition, the judge in this litigation has lifted the stay.
The parties have led supplemental briengs on the Groups US Vaccines subpoena motion to dismiss and await a ruling from the court.
The Group On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the has made no provision for this matter.
US Attorneys Ofce for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to the Groups Vaccines business.
Anti-trust competition The Group is responding to the subpoena.
The Group is unable The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of this expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category matter, and no provision has been made for it.
and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
Matters for which US subpoena relating to Imitrex and Amerge the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other On 7 March 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US provisions.
Attorneys Ofce for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to the Groups US contracts for Imitrex and UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation Amerge.
The Group is responding to the subpoena.
The Group is On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect CMA issued a decision ning the Group and two other of this matter, and no provision has been made for it.
pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition Act.
The CMA imposed a ne of 37.6 million on the Group, as Avandia well as fines totalling 7.4 million against the other companies.
The Group is defending an action by the County of Santa Clara, California, which was brought under Californias consumer This relates to agreements to settle patent disputes between the protection laws seeking civil penalties and restitution as a result Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, of the Groups marketing of Avandia.
The Group has led a number entered between 2001 and 2003.
The Group terminated the of dispositive motions which are pending before the MDL Court.
The Group believes it has strong The County of Santa Clara recently has led a motion to dismiss arguments to defend its actions and is currently examining the the action from federal court for lack of federal jurisdiction.
This CMAs nding with its legal advisors with a view to appeal to the motion has been briefed and argued by the parties.
Competition Appeal Tribunal such that the ne is overturned or substantially reduced.
Accordingly no provision has been made for this matter.
GSK Annual Report 2015 209 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011, the 45 Legal proceedings continued US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC led a formal Lamictal complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the US District Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers led suit in Court for the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that principals violated federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the the company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse to employees that the company was about to be sold.
The case payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation.
A had been stayed but was returned to active status in early summer separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market.
On 30 November 2015, the court entered orders asking the On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial courts parties to rebrief their summary judgment motions and setting a decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the pretrial conference for August 2016.
The Group has made a trial court.
On 26 October 2015, the trial court denied the Groups provision for the Stiefel litigation.
motion for a stay and set a schedule for early dispositive motions Environmental matters and discovery.
The Group led a petition for certiorari with the The Group has been notied of its potential responsibility relating United States Supreme Court on 19 February 2016. to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain Wellbutrin XL sites, primarily in the US.
Some of these matters are the subject of Plaintiffs claimed antitrust injury related to allegedly sham patent litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state litigation led by Biovail against generic companies pursuing governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort ANDAs for generic Wellbutrin XL.
The Group was named as a actions brought by private parties.
party plaintiff in two patent infringement actions but later withdrew The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party from those matters.
The Group was not a party in the remaining at approximately 21 sites, of which 11 appear on the National two patent infringement actions relating to Wellbutrin XL.
Plaintiffs Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental alleged that a conspiracy to delay generic approval existed Response Compensation and Liability Act Superfund.
These between Biovail and the Group, but the Court granted summary proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste judgment in favour of the Group on those claims.
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of The sole remaining claim related to plaintiffs allegations that the hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites Group entered into an anti-competitive reverse payment settlement or to reimburse the US Government for cleanup costs.
In most to resolve the patent infringement litigation.
The Court granted instances, the Group is involved as an alleged generator of summary judgment in favour of the Group on all claims, and the hazardous waste.
matter is currently pending appeal before the US Court of Appeals Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly for the Third Circuit Court.
and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are Commercial and corporate frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the waste disposed of by the generator at the site.
The Groups expected financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially category, it has included a provision in respect of such matters in determined for 18 of the sites referred to above.
the provision for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29, The Groups potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such Securities ERISA class actions Stiefel sites could, over time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues There are currently three outstanding lawsuits brought by former amounts related to its share of the liability for such matters.
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Stiefel employees alleging that Stiefel and its ofcers and directors violated the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group.
The Fried case is currently on appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit with oral argument having taken place in February 2016.
Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in this matter at a jury trial in federal court in Florida in October 2013 and the plaintiff appealed.
Trial of a second Florida case has been stayed pending resolution of the Fried matter.
Discovery also continues in a case pending in New York federal court.
