150 Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting.
Index Indices A formula incorporating economically important traits for ranking the genetic potential of animals Artificial insemination AI Using semen collected from as parents of the next generation.
a bull or boar to impregnate a cow or sow when in estrus.
Artificial insemination allows a genetically superior male to Integrated pork producer Producers of pork typically be used to mate with many more females than would be involved in raising animals to slaughter weight all the way possible with natural mating.
through to packaged and or branded pork products.
Biosecurity The precautions taken to reduce the chance IP Intellectual property.
of transmitting disease agents from one livestock operation to another.
Line Multiple animals that have been mated together in a CSR Corporate Social Responsibility.
Pure lines can have their origins in one founding breed or in several breeds.
DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Market pig equivalents MPE A theoretical measure of EPS Earnings per share.
the number of terminal pigs, of which each pig accounts for half a male MPE and half a female MPE, produced by each Farrow When a sow gives birth to piglets.
GELT Genus Executive Leadership Team.
Multiplier A producer whose farm contains grandparent Gender skew The ability to influence the proportion of sows.
The farm crosses together two lines of grandparents, offspring being of a particular sex.
multiplying the number of genetically improved parents that are available for sale.
Genetic gain The change of the genetic make up of a particular animal population in response to having selected PEDv Porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus, which causes parents that excelled genetically for important traits.
older pigs to lose weight and is usually fatal for newborn piglets.
Genetic lag The amount of time required to disseminate genetic gain from a nucleus herd to the commercial customer.
Progeny tested Elite animals whose genetic value as a parent has been tested and validated through the Genetic nucleus A specialised pig herd, where Genus PIC performance of their offspring.
Pigs are genetically tested at the nucleus to select the best animals to produce the next generation.
Genomic bull A bull which has been assessed through PSP Performance Share Plan.
This typically refers to bulls which have not been progeny-tested.
Genomically tested An animal that has been RMS ABSs Reproductive Management System, which is a DNAprofiled.
systematic approach to maximising pregnancy production and its contribution to herd profitability.
Genomics The study of the genome, which is the DNA sequence of an animals chromosomes.
Gilt A young female pig, which has not yet given birth.
RWD ABSs Real World Data System of observed performance data from many dairy herds.
GMS ABSs Genetic Management System, which creates a genetic solution tailored to each individual dairy producer Sire The male parent of an animal.
to obtain improved herd genetics.
Sire line The male line selected for traits desirable for Grandparent The relationship of a breeding pig to the themarket.
generation of terminal market pigs.
Agrandparent produces parents, who in turn produce the commercial Sow A female pig which has given birth at least once.
Straw A narrow tube used to package frozen bull semen.
Group Genus plc and its subsidiary companies.
Stud Locations where bulls or boars are housed and their GSS Genus Sexed Semen.
semen collected, evaluated, diluted into multiple doses straws and packaged, ready for shipping to farms.
Trait A measurable characteristic that may be a target for In vitro fertilisation IVF The fertilisation of an oocyte genetic selection.
with semen outside an animal in a laboratory for transfer into a surrogate.
Unit A straw of frozen bull semen or tube bag of fresh boar semen sold to a customer.
