Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements The Directors in ofce at the date of this Annual Report have each in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
confirmed that: UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors of which the companys auditors are unaware: and are required to prepare the Group financial statements in he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In preparing the Group relevant audit information and to establish that the companys financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply auditors are aware of that information.
with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Going concern basis and profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Pages 51 to 72 contain information on the performance of the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Group, its financial position, cash ows, net debt position and required to: borrowing facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, consistently: Financial instruments and related disclosures.
Having assessed make judgements and accounting estimates that are the principal risks and other matters considered in connection with reasonable and prudent: the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS financial statements.
as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and Internal control explained in the Group financial statements: The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by continue in business.
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting of Directors.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys The UK Corporate Governance Code transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS as described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 80 Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets to 101.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December position and performance, business model and strategy.
2015, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, are set out in Financial statements on pages 138 to 210 of this the auditors have considered the Directors statement of report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Annual Report The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, 2015 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report, printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are the Financial statements and additional information for investors, responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the behalf by preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are Philip Hampton listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report Chairman 2015 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: 16 March 2016 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report, which represent the management report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
