Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards 1 Presentation of the financial statements An amendment to IAS 19 Dened benefit plans: Employee Description of business contribution was issued in November 2013 and was implemented GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the by GSK from 1 January 2015.
The amendment provides additional creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing guidance on the treatment of contributions to dened benefit of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, over-the-counter plans from employees and third parties and has no material impact OTC medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs on the current period.
principal pharmaceutical products include medicines in the Financial period following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, central nervous These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials, to 31 December 2015, with comparative gures for the financial dermatology, rare diseases, immuno-inammation, vaccines years from 1 January to 31 December 2014 and, where and HIV.
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2013.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS Parent company financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK International Accounting Standards IAS and International accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214. as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
2 Accounting principles and policies Composition of financial statements Consolidation The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, The consolidated financial statements include: the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash ows, with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts comprise: the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates Consolidated income statement and joint ventures Consolidated statement of comprehensive income the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Consolidated balance sheet of joint operations.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to 31 December each year.
Consolidated cash ow statement Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant Notes to the financial statements.
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Composition of the Group control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the as subsidiaries.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal are accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the Group companies.
ability to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the Accounting principles and policies arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint The financial statements have been prepared using the historical operation.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise significant cost convention modied by the revaluation of certain items, as inuence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint The financial statements have been prepared in accordance ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board statements using the equity method of accounting.
The and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Information on the application of these accounting policies, of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
Key accounting judgements and estimates.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated generally accepted accounting principles requires management from the date control ceases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
142 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Revenue 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated services are supplied or made available to external customers and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
The customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, and all relevant obligations have been fullled, such that the joint operations and associates is also deferred until the products earnings process is regarded as being complete.
are sold to third parties.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of are recorded directly in equity.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to considered recoverable.
estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case past experience and projected market conditions.
Market of joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is denominated conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party in the currency of the operation acquired.
analyses, market research data and internally generated information.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the from revenue.
net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as Business combinations co-promotion income within turnover.
The nature of co-promotion Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Identiable assets, liabilities and contingent Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
In addition, The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and initial or event-based milestone income excluding royalty income includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Where arising on development or marketing collaborations of the Groups the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling compounds or products with other parties is recognised in interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and turnover.
Milestone income of nil is included in turnover contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the noncontrolling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the Expenditure non-controlling interests share of the net assets of the subsidiary, Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services on a case-by-case basis.
Changes in the Groups ownership received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation Foreign currency translation can be reliably estimated.
Manufacturing start-up costs between Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional validation and the achievement of normal production are expensed currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on as incurred.
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged the date of transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and to the income statement as incurred.
Shipment costs on interliabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of company transfers are charged to cost of sales: distribution exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general are included in the income statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance reorganisation where the plans are sufciently detailed and sheet date.
The results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using affected has been undertaken.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inationary economies, adjustments are made where material to reect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2015 143 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Notes to the financial statements continued Employee share plans 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under Research and development share option and share award schemes.
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
asset are met, usually when a regulatory ling has been made in a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
Property, The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company plant and equipment used for research and development is shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees capitalised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy.
exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the Environmental expenditure ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
A transfer is made Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting from past or current operations and from which no current or periods of the related share options or awards to reect the future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably estimated.
This liability includes the Groups Property, plant and equipment portion of the total costs and also a portion of other potentially Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of responsible parties costs when it is probable that they will not be purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded as assets when qualifying assets in construction.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value Legal and other disputes of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal the expected useful life.
Residual values and lives are reviewed, or other disputes against the Group where an outow of resources and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
The normal expected is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are: the likely outcome.
In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
In certain cases, an incurred On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated but not reported IBNR actuarial technique is used to determine depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial this estimate.
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect the income statement.
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the Leases expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate all the benets and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as disclosure about such cases would be included but no provision finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Costs associated with claims made by the Group assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital against third parties are charged to the income statement as they elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations are incurred.
Assets held under finance leases are Pensions and other post-employment benets depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or The costs of providing pensions under dened benefit schemes the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread is included in the income statement.
All other leases are operating over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement the employees services, consistent with the advice of qualied on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value Goodwill of estimated future cash ows discounted at rates reecting the Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed yields of high quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, a similar way to dened benefit pension schemes and spread liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income from the employees services, in accordance with the advice of statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
The Groups contributions to dened contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
144 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Available-for-sale investments 2 Accounting principles and policies continued Liquid investments and other investments are classied as Other intangible assets available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent and impairments.
reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in other Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately comprehensive income.
Impairments arising from the significant acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are or prolonged decline in fair value of an equity investment reduce amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding the carrying amount of the asset directly and are charged to the 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are income statement.
The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation charge take into account patent lives, where On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods of nonlosses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income exclusivity.
Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate are reclassied to the income statement.
Dividends on equity adjusted, annually.
Contingent milestone payments are recognised investments are recognised in the income statement when the at the point that the contingent event becomes probable.
Any Groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments development costs incurred by the Group and associated with are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are sold within one year.
written off to the income statement when incurred, unless the Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale are met, usually when a regulatory ling has been made in a major investments are accounted for on settlement date.
market and approval is considered highly probable.
Inventories Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and value which is substantial and long term and where the brands related production overheads and net realisable value.
Cost is either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Pre-launch from the rest of the businesses acquired.
Brands are amortised inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where regulatory approval for the product.
Before that point a provision it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount: the The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised regulatory approval is determined.
as intangible xed assets where the software or site supports Trade receivables a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any creation of a durable asset.
ERP systems software is amortised provisions for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there over seven to ten years and other computer software over three is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, to five years.
previous experience and general economic conditions.
When a Impairment of non-current assets trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for rstly against any provision available and then to the income impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger statement.
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are might be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet discounted where the effect is material.
available for use are tested for impairment annually.
Any provision for impairment is charged to the income statement in the year Borrowings concerned.
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently Impairments of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses on carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts redemption being recognised as a charge to the income and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
The Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations.
