Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information Share buy-back programme Share capital and control The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares under Article 9 of the companys Articles of Association.
The held in Treasury as at 31 December 2015 can be found in power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make Note 33 to the financial statements, Share capital and share purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities premium account.
which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting AGM.
Any shares purchased by the company may Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange be cancelled or held as Treasury shares or used for satisfying and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE share options and grants under Group employee share plans.
in the form of American Depositary Shares ADS.
Each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares.
For details of listed debt and Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements, to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority Net debt.
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2015, when the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive 486 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, those cancelled, dividends when declared, the companys Annual Report, to and those held as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the attend and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
proxies and to exercise voting rights.
In determining specic share repurchase levels, the company There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the considers the development of free cash ow during the year.
Given holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash ow, obtain approval prior to any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares or ADS the company suspended its share repurchase programme during carry any special rights with regard to control of the company and 2014 and no shares were purchased during the financial year there are no restrictions on voting rights.
Major shareholders have ended 2015. the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make any by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known further market purchases in 2016.
The company will review the agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
potential for future share buy-backs during 2017 in line with its usual annual cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
Market capitalisation The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2015 was 66.82 billion.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security At that date, GSK was the third largest company by market holders capitalisation in the FTSE index.
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force Share price from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees 2015 2014 2013 or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the At 1 January 13.76 16.12 13.35 companys shares who are non-residents of the UK.
Similarly, other At 31 December 13.73 13.76 16.12 than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to Decrease increase 0.2 % 14.6 % 20.7% time, there are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK High during the year 16.42 16.91 17.82 under English law or the companys Articles of Association on the Low during the year 12.38 13.24 13.35 right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of, the companys The table above sets out the middle market closing prices.
The companys share price decreased by 0.2% in 2015.
This Interests in voting rights compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 4.9% during Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no the year.
The share price on 10 March 2016 was 13.86. persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules UK US$ DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on 75 18 the companys website.
17 70 At 10 March 2016, the company had received notications in 16 65 accordance with the FCAs DTRs of the following notiable 15 60 interests in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: 55 14 Percentage of 13 50 No.
of issued 12 45 shares capital % 11 40 BlackRock, Inc. 327,190,315 6.72 Legal & General Group Plc 147,931,457 3.04 10 35 09 30 Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own UK share price UK US ADS price US$ shares during the period under review.
GSK Annual Report 2015 241 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued Nature of trading market The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares representing the companys ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY Nominees Limited.
At 10 March 2016, BNY Nominees Limited held 827,207,151 Ordinary Shares representing 16.98% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares at that date.
At 10 March 2016, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 1,030 with holdings of 1,054,172 Ordinary Shares, and the number of registered holders of ADS was 24,763 with holdings of 413,603,575 ADS.
Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
242 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dividends Financial calendar The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash Event Date to shareholders through its dividend policy.
Dividends remain an Quarter 1 results announcement April May 2016 essential component of total shareholder return and the company Annual General Meeting May 2016 is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term.
Details Quarter 2 results announcement July 2016 of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates are Quarter 3 results announcement October 2016 given in Note 16 to the financial statements, Dividends.
Preliminary Quarter 4 results announcement February 2017 GSK completed a transaction with Novartis in March 2015, Annual Report publication February March 2017 whereby GSK and Novartis created a new world-leading Annual Report distribution March 2017 Consumer Healthcare business, GSK acquired Novartis global Vaccines business and GSK divested its marketed Oncology Information about the company, including the share price, is available portfolio and related R&D activities.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
GSK plans to use the net cash transaction proceeds to fund a return of approximately 1 billion 20p per share to shareholders Results announcements via a special dividend to be paid with GSKs Q4 2015 ordinary Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange dividend payment.
and are available on its news service.
They are also sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Dividends per share to the media and made available on our website.
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the last five years.
The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at Financial reports applicable exchange rates.
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available on our website from the date of publication.
Shareholders may Year Dividend pence US$ elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
1 2015 Special 20 Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notication by 1 2015 80 email of the publication of financial reports by registering on 2014 80 2.59 www.
2013 78 2.47 Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
2012 74 2.35 Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and 2011 70 2.25 from the GSK Response Center in the US see pages 246 and 2011 Supplemental 5 0.16 247 for the contact details.
1 The Q4 2015 interim ordinary dividend and special dividend Annual General Meeting 2016 receivable by ADR holders will be calculated based on the exchange 2.30pm UK time on Thursday 5 May 2016 rate on 12 April 2016.
The cumulative dividend receivable by ADR The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2015 was 1.71 US$.
The 2015 special dividend relates to the return of part of the net The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication cash proceeds from the Novartis transaction.
In addition to the formal business, The 2011 supplemental dividend related to the disposal of certain there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of non-core OTC brands in North America.
This was paid with the the Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity fourth quarter ordinary dividend for 2011. for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
Dividend fee for ADR holders GSK introduced a dividend fee for ADR holders with effect from Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange the Q1 2015 dividend payment, authorised under the terms of the with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of amended and restated Deposit Agreement.
A notice was provided their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
to registered ADR holders on 6 April 2015.
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy The fee was introduced to offset, in part, the costs related to from BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of your request SEC registration including Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses, to do so.
This will enable you to attend and vote on the business administration of the ADS Facility and the maintenance of our to be transacted.
ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the NYSE listing fees.
The fee is expected to remain in place for way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted future dividends.
by completing and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
The annual fee is currently set at $0.02 per ADR or $0.005 per ADR per quarter.
Under the Depositary Agreement, GSK can Documents on display charge up to 5 cent per ADR.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between Dividend calendar Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are ADS ex-dividend Ex-dividend Quarter date date Record date Payment date available for inspection at the companys registered ofce and will Q4 2015 be made available for inspection at the AGM.
and special 17 February 2016 18 February 2016 19 February 2016 14 April 2016 dividend Q1 2016 11 May 2016 12 May 2016 13 May 2016 14 July 2016 Q2 2016 10 August 2016 11 August 2016 12 August 2016 13 October 2016 Q3 2016 2 November 2016 3 November 2016 4 November 2016 12 January 2017 GSK Annual Report 2015 243 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued Taxation of capital gains Tax information for shareholders UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax of shares or ADR.
For disposals by individuals and subject to the consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt the UK or the US is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such sale of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
shareholders taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the rate income tax limit.
In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their on a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at shares or ADR and the consequences under state and local tax a combination of both rates.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled laws in the US and the implications of the current UK US tax to an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to conventions.
the extent that such gains arise due to ination.
Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the allowable loss.
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Inheritance tax Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Individual UK-domiciled or otherwise shareholders may be liable Convention, and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be 1986, as amended the Code.
charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift UK shareholders or other disposal at less than full market value.
In the case of a This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds bequest on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares shares as capital assets.
at the date of the shareholders death.
If such a gift or other Taxation of dividends disposal were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or Different regimes apply to the taxation of dividend income payable gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally to UK resident individuals in UK tax years up to 5 April 2016 and to provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in those tax years commencing on or after 6 April 2016. the UK.
For UK tax years up to and including 2015 16, UK resident Stamp duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax on the full UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a tax to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a credit.
The tax credit may be set against the individuals income tax rate of 0.5% rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of stamp liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to duty of the consideration for the transfer.
Notwithstanding this, shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax provided that an instrument is executed in pursuance of the credit.
To the extent that individuals income exceeds the basic rate agreement that gave rise to the charge to SDRT and that limit, but not the higher rate limit an upper dividend rate applies, instrument is stamped within six years of the agreement including which is set at 32.5% of the grossed up dividend gure and for being stamped as exempt any SDRT charge should be cancelled those whose income exceeds the additional rate limit of 150,000, and any SDRT which has already been paid will be repaid.
an additional dividend rate of 37.5% will normally apply.
US shareholders For UK tax years from 2016 17 onwards, dividend tax credits will This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or no longer apply and UK resident individuals will be entitled instead resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is to a dividend tax allowance of up to 5,000, so that the first otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis 5,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax.
in respect of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or for additional rate taxpayers.
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR and one or more other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income tax treaties.
244 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, source dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
or other disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term Dividends on ADR are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual are payable in pounds Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year, will be included in income in the US dollar amount calculated by from the date the shares were vested released.
Short-term capital reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are gains can be subject to taxation of rates of up to 43.4%, whereas received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term long-term capital gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%.
or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject State and local tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualied Information reporting and backup withholding dividends.
A qualied dividend as dened by the US Internal Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or Revenue Service is a dividend that meets the following criteria: ADR, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial 1.
Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a benets of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
identication number and certies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information 2.
The dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a not qualify.
certication of their non-US status in connection with payments 3.
The required dividend holding period has been met.
Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the credit against a holders US federal income tax liability provided holding period which is dened as the 121-day period that the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which Service.
the stock trades without the dividend priced in.
For example, if a Estate and gift taxes stocks ex-dividend date is October 1, the shares must be held Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not for more than 60 days in the period between August 2 and generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
November 30 of that year in order to count as a qualied dividend.
Stamp duty UK stamp duty and or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, Dividends that are not qualied are subject to taxation at the US be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 43.4%.
Some depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualied provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
but are not limited to : However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the 1.
Capital gains distributions transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADR.
Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ESOP 4.
Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations US state and local tax rates on qualied and non-qualied dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates communicated above.
GSK Annual Report 2015 245 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued Shareholder services and contacts Registrar The companys registrar is: Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA www.
co. uk Tel: 0371 384 2991 in the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: Service What it offers How to participate Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose to A DRIP election form can be downloaded DRIP reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares.
co. uk or requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank account If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the post, A dividend bank mandate form can Bank Mandate you can instead have them paid directly into your bank or building be downloaded from www.
This is quicker, more secure and avoids the risk or requested by telephoning Equiniti.
of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank account for Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, Equiniti For more details on this service and the costs overseas shareholders will convert your dividend into your local currency and send it involved please contact Equiniti.
direct to your local bank account.
This service is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notications of You can register at www.
co. uk company communications including our Annual Report, dividend payments if paid by way of a Bank Mandate, access to electronic tax vouchers and the availability of online voting for all general meetings.
Each time GSK mails out hard copy shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at www.
co. uk share balance and movements, update your address and dividend payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, Please contact Equiniti.
please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certicated form or For internet transactions, please log please note that market trading hours held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, telephone on to www.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti Financial For telephone transactions, please Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in Services Limited.
For postal transactions, please call 0371 384 2991 to request a dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested a share certicate.
The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.
co. uk or your shares in a nominee company sponsored by the company.
by telephoning Equiniti on You will continue to receive dividend payments, annual reports and 0371 384 2991. can attend and vote at the companys general meetings.
Shareholders names do not appear on the publicly available share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Limited Details are available from to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK Ordinary Shares.
co. uk or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti, on 0345 300 0430.
Lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for enquiries Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
246 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information ADR Depositary Contacts Investor relations The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New Investor relations may be contacted as follows: York Mellon: UK BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road PO Box 30170 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS College Station, TX 77842-3170 Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Overnight correspondence should be sent to: US BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 5 Crescent Drive 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 Philadelphia PA 19112 College Station, TX 77845 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free www.
com Tel: 1 215 751 4611 outside the US Tel: 1 877 353 1154 US toll free GSK Response Center Tel: 1 201 680 6825 outside the US Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free email: shrrelations@.
com Share scam alert The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
your shares, please take extra care.
The caller may be part of a For details of how to enrol please visit www.
com or highly organised financial scam.
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities, Corporate PEPs at www.
uk consumers or on its consumer helpline: The Share Centre Limited Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 in the UK Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 Tel: 44 20 7066 1000 outside the UK www.
com Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, Donating shares to Save the Children and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the Responsible Business Supplement aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2015 online.
This will outline GSKs approach to, and performance in, Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which our key responsible business areas, Health for all, Our behaviour, makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them Our people and Our planet.
Donated shares will be aggregated and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them reach the above goal.
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, who is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to Save the Children free of charge.
