INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, GKN plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report and accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Context As a result of the acquisition of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. Fokker in late 2015 we have included an additional area of focus in relation to the opening balance sheet accounting.
The remaining areas we considered were consistent with the 2014 audit.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 18 million 2014: 22 million represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other financial instruments.
Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements we Materiality performed audits of the complete financial information of 54 reporting units 2014: 56 reporting units, and specific audit procedures in a further 32 reporting units 2014: 24 reporting units and at one large joint venture in China.
Audit scope In addition, the Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments were audited.
The components on which audits of the complete financial information and centralised work was Area of performed accounted for 70% of Group revenue.
focus As part of our supervision process, the Group engagement team visited all significant components and a number of other component auditors in multiple locations in the Netherlandsandthe USA, as well as being responsible for allin scope UK reporting locations.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: Assessment of the carrying value of the intangible and tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at Western Approach.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other relevant assets.
Assessment of the accounting position adopted on complex contractual obligations.
Assessment of the accounting position adopted on the opening balance sheet accounting for the Fokker acquisition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
GKN plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC continued We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained and understood the Directors impairment model Assessment of the carrying value of the intangible and and tested it for mathematical accuracy, and found that it tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at followed an acceptable methodology and was consistent with Western Approach prior periods.
Refer to pages 40 to 47 Risk management Principal risks and We obtained an understanding of the Directors assumptions on uncertainties, pages 70 to 75 Audit & Risk Committee report, the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts and obtained note 1 Accounting policies and presentation, note 11 evidence to evaluate their appropriateness.
We performed a Goodwill and other intangible assets and note 12 Property, range of sensitivities on the assumptions in order to understand plant and equipment.
which assumptions were most sensitive in determining the We focused on this area because the Directors assessment recoverable value.
The most sensitive and judgemental of the recoverability of this programmes intangible assets of assumptions identified by these procedures and our work over 156 million and tangible assets of 67 million, inclusive of them are detailed below: 15 million of capitalised borrowing costs, involve complex and we validated the assumptions applied by the Directors to subjective judgements and assumptions about the progress calculate the discount rate used, through the use of our and future results of this programme.
The key judgements and specialists to compare this to thecost of capital for the Group assumptions made by the Directors included the discount rate and a selection of comparable organisations.
and the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts, being for production and assembly hours, we considered the the number of aircraft sets to be produced and production and Directors expectations for achieving targeted learning curve assembly hours.
improvementsand hence reducing the total hours per aircraft set.
We challenged the Directors on the historical achievement of learning curve improvement targets on the A350 programme and where these had not been achieved, obtained sufficient understanding of the basis on which the Directors believe these could be achieved in the future.
We also considered how thiswas balanced against the expected increase in production rates over future yearsand theimplicit challenges that this will bring to achieving the required hours improvements.
for the number of aircraft sets, we considered the Directors expectations for the number and timing of sets to be produced and compared this to current industry expectations, past schedules and the latest reported order book from Airbus.
Based on our audit work, the Directors assumptions on the planned levels of production and assemblyhour improvements appear achievable, although not without challenge, and the total number of aircraft sets expected to be produced is consistent with current market expectations and production schedules.
As a result of this, we found that the Directors assessment of the carrying value of intangible and tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at Western Approach to be supportable.
However, we consider that a failure to meet target production and assemblyhours as the supply to Airbus increases, or a significant change in the total number of aircraft sets to be produced could reasonably be expected to give rise to an impairment charge in the future.
This finding is consistent with the results of our work in 2014.
GKN plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus For each area of complexity identified, we verified the amount of Risk of fraud in revenue recognition revenue recognised by the Directors to check that it was in line Refer to pages 40 to 47 Risk management Principal risks and with IAS 18 Revenue and the contractual agreement and latest uncertainties, pages 70 to 75 Audit & Risk Committee report, formal correspondence with the customer.
In particular: note 1 Accounting policies and presentation and note 2 For RRSPs we agreed the percentage of revenue entitlement to Segmental analysis.
the customer contract, agreed the revenue recognised to We focused on this area because while the majority of the Groups supporting correspondence from the customer and obtained revenue is generated from non-complex revenue recognition, an evidence on the level of revenue recognised where estimates element is made up of a number of complex revenue recognition were made by the Directors at the year-end date.
Specifically, policies, which require the Directors to exercise judgement and we tested the reasonableness of the estimate through therefore revenue could be subject to material misstatement, agreement to post year-end confirmations received by the whether due to fraud or error.
This specifically includes Directors from customers.
judgement over whether revenue has been earned, can be When revenue was recognised based on non-contractually recognised and the subsequent value at which to recognise agreed terms, we challenged the Directors assessment and this revenue.
validated the assertions which drove the level of revenue recognised by taking into account the historical level of These complexities and judgements include, but are not limited agreement reached with customers on similar programmes and to: agreeing the revenue recognised to either post year-end cash risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs in GKN settlements or communications with the customer.
Aerospace where GKN is entitled to a set percentage of revenue Where the contracts are complex and have multiple elements per completed aircraft as contractually agreed with the we verified that the recognition triggers had been identified in programme partner, which requires the Directors to exercise order to unbundle the revenue and allocate it to the respective judgement as to how much revenue to recognise reflecting the parts of the contract.
quantum of products despatched by the engine manufacturer In addition to the specific items noted above, we also responded and the difference in pricing of original engine manufacturer to the risk that journal entries could be posted to misstate parts and spare parts at the year-end: revenue by testing a sample of accounting journals relating to pricing of non-contractually agreed elements of revenue, revenue so as to identify unusual or irregular items.
We agreed including rebates and ongoing pricing discussions, which the journals tested to corroborative evidence and found no requires a level of judgement to be applied by the Directors instances of manipulation of revenue occurring in this way.
over how much revenue to recognise: and the unbundling of complex contracts and multiple element Based on the results of our audit work, we found that the revenue arrangements, which requires the Directors to exercise recognised by the Directors agreed to the relevant contractual judgement over the appropriateness of the accounting terms, was at an appropriate value and was consistent with the treatment for each individual part of the contract or requirements of IAS 18.
This finding is consistent with the results arrangement.
However we did note that contracts with In addition, we also focused on this area because the GKN customers are becoming ever more complex and unique and we short-term variable remuneration scheme STVRS of the have therefore recommended that the Directors continue to give Directors and senior management is significantly driven by sufficient consideration to the revenue being recognised.
financial measures including revenue, which we concluded gave a greater risk of manipulation of judgements around revenue recognition to ensure that STVRS targets are achieved.
GKN plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We understood and tested the Directors impairment models Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other around the key business drivers of the cash flow forecasts relevant assets supporting their recoverability assessments.
We also evaluated Refer to page 34 Other financial information, pages 40 to 47 the appropriateness of the key assumptions including the Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 70 discount rate and long term growth rate applied.
to 75 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies For the Aerospace St. Louis CGU, where the Directors recognised and presentation and note 11 Goodwill and other intangible an impairment charge of 49 million, we focused on the key assets.
assumptions of future revenue expectations and cost reduction We focused on this area because the Directors assessment activities.
We were able to evaluate the reasonableness of the ofwhether or not certain elements of goodwill and other relevant Directors forecast by substantiating their assumptions regarding assets were impaired, and the level of impairment to be booked if the amount of future revenue by agreeing this to contractual applicable, involved complex and subjective judgements and terms and assessing the margin expected to be achieved by assumptions about the progress and future results of the Groups reference to historical margin and margin improvement plans.
In the Aerospace Astech CGU, where the Directors recognised an In particular, we focused on the carrying values of material CGUs impairment charge of 14 million, the key assumption we focused forAerospace St. Louis in North America 8 million of goodwill on was the future revenue profile, given the loss of a key and 110 million of other relevant assets andAerospace Astech programme with Boeing during the year.
The key factor we in North America 13 million of goodwill and 13 million of other considered was forecast margin on other programmes with relevant assets.
reference to historical margin achieved on similar programmes.
The Directors have recorded total impairment charges of We also validated the inputs used by the Directors to calculate 71 million relating to the Aerospace St. Louis CGU 49 million, the discount rate appliedby using our specialists to compare this the Aerospace Astech CGU 14 million and other impairment to thecost of capital for the Group and a selection of comparable charges totalling 8 million.
The Directors key assumptions for long term growth rates were alsocomparedto economic and industry No impairment triggers had been identified by the Directors in forecasts for reasonableness.
respect of the remaining CGUs and or their impairment models determined that adequate headroom existed not to result in the We assessed, through the performance of sensitivity analysis need for an impairment charge in reasonably possible scenarios.
over the key assumptions above, the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the impairment charges to be materially different to those amounts recognised.
We also assessed the likelihood of such changes occurring.
As a result of our audit work, we determined that the impairment charges for the Aerospace St. Louis and Aerospace Astech CGUs were within a range of potential likely outcomes based on the current plans which reflect the Directors best estimate of the value in use of the CGUs.
In addition, based on our audit work, in respect of the remaining CGUs, the Directors assessment that no impairment charge is required to be recognised was supportable.
However, certain models are sensitive to revenue growth and margin improvement targets which, if delayed or not achieved, could reasonably be expected to give rise to further impairment charges in the future.
The methodology applied by management is consistent with that applied in 2014 and whilst the CGUs considered are in some instances different, the judgments taken in totality remain supportable.
GKN plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tested, on a sample basis, the valuation and calculation of Assessment of the accounting position adopted on individual liabilities that made up the total.
In particular: complex contractual obligations For liabilities recognised, we validated that the assessment and Refer to pages 40 to 47 Risk management Principal risks and calculation of any provision was consistent with the requirements uncertainties, pages 70 to 75 Audit & Risk Committee report, of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets note 1 Accounting policies and presentation, note 2 Segmental and that all potential outcomes had been considered and analysis and note 21 Provisions.
appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
The Group continues to work closely with its customers and We assessed the completeness of the Directors knowledge of suppliers to resolve contractual and other claims and disputes.
contract variations and recoveries, onerous contracts, warranty, These matters are principally in respect of contract variations and delivery performance and pricing claims using our knowledge of recoveries, onerous contracts, warranty, delivery performance the business, enquiries of the Directors, examining post year-end and pricing.
correspondence with customers and suppliers and assessing the We focused on this area because the Directors are required to Directors material litigation process.
perform an assessment of the expected outcome in line with We found no material exceptions from the procedures noted relevant accounting standards and consider each item above.
We consider the Directors recognition of liabilities to be individually.
The determination of whether to recognise aliability reasonable and within an acceptable range of potentially likely or not, or make disclosure in the financial statements requires the outcomes and consistent with the requirements of IAS 37.
This Directors to exercise considerable judgement.
finding is consistent with the results of our work in 2014.
In addition, given the wide ranging geographical and market spread of the Group, there is also complexity in the Directors ensuring they have considered all known disputes, claims and potential recoveries.
GKN plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
