NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended December Accounting policies and presentation Foreign currencies The Groups significant accounting policies are summarisedbelow.
Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences Basis of preparation sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange The consolidated financial statements the statements have rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the been prepared in accordance with International Financial transaction except in the case of material transactions when Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the the European Union.
These statements have been prepared under underlying substance of the transaction.
Where practicable, the historical cost method except where other measurement bases transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward are required to be applied under IFRS as set out below.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet These statements have been prepared using all standards date.
Such transactional exchange dierences are taken into andinterpretations required for financial periods beginning account in determining profit before tax.
No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required implementation date.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are Standards, revisions and amendments to standards treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are and interpretations recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with balances are recognised through the income statement.
an eective date in 2015 with no material impact on its results, assets and liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated to sterling at average Basis of consolidation exchange rates except in the case of material transactions when The statements incorporate the financial statements of the the actual spot rate is used where it more accurately reflects the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and the underlying substance of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities are Groups share of the results and equity of its joint ventures and translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
associates together equity accounted investments.
During 2014 Such translational exchange dierences are taken to equity.
the Group did not have any material associates, but through its acquisition in the year see note 30 it now has one such profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net investment.
This has necessitated a change to the narrative only.
investments include the accumulated net exchange dierences that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
the Company has control through the power to govern financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from their activities.
Presentation of the income statement This power is accompanied by a shareholding of more than 50% IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold statement.
Line items and subtotals have been presented on during the year are included in the Groups results from the date theface of the income statement in addition to those required of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
combination are measured at fair value.
Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses share of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
order to achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating profit is analysed to show separately the Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders results of normal trading performance and individually significant earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders.
Such items arise because of their size or nature and comprise: Equity accounted investments Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from financial and operating policies.
In all cases voting rights are 50% events that are significant to any reportable segment or lower.
Associated undertakings are entities, being neither a amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets subsidiary nor a joint venture, where the Group has a significant arising on business combinations influence.
Equity accounted investments are accounted for by the changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments equity method.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill and material currency translation movements arising on arising on acquisition.
intra-Group funding gains or losses on changes in Group structure which do not meet the denition of discontinued operations or which the Group views as capital rather than revenue in nature GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
