CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make Measurement of franchise commitments judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these judgements and The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims from ultimately may differ from these estimates.
other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation of franchise agreements The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of and rolling stock agreements.
The Group has significant internal expertise causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable within the next financial year are in relation to: management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, Impairment testing and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported IFRS require management to perform impairment testing if events or changes by valuations from professional external advisors to support provision levels.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Contract and franchise accounting The measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to amounts due requires estimation of the net present value of future cashflows that an and the recoverable carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising investment might make which requires estimations of: from franchises and other contracts.
Regular forecasts are compiled on Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate the outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and to each business judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs.
In Future growth rates cases where options exist, consideration is also given to the expected life of the contract or franchise.
Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required Exceptional items The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income appropriate to the Group statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of Our assessment of impairment and the associated sensitivities are detailed the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise in note 13. to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of Retirement benefit obligations financial performance.
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out in note 27.
The Group engages Towers Watson, a global professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to our particular circumstances.
Management also benchmark these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors such as .
Uninsured claims The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately factored in to the provision for known claims.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 100
