Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make Measurement of franchise commitments 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND Basis of consolidation judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these judgements and The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRSS The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims from of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 27 June 2015.
The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc ultimately may differ from these estimates.
other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24.
Significant elements of the Group for the year ended 27 June 2015 were authorised for issue by Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the provisions required are subject to interpretation of franchise agreements the Board of directors on 2 September 2015 and the balance sheet was The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is and rolling stock agreements.
The Group has significant internal expertise signed on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Keith Down.
The causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities transferred out of the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries for use to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, within the next financial year are in relation to: in the consolidation are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, domiciled and has its registered office in England and Wales.
The Groups company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group Impairment testing and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group IFRS require management to perform impairment testing if events or changes by valuations from professional external advisors to support provision levels.
is not under the control of any single shareholder.
transactions, have been eliminated in full.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Contract and franchise accounting The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared The measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life intangible assets Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held by Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to amounts due in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as requires estimation of the net present value of future cashflows that an the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented and the recoverable carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the consolidated investment might make which requires estimations of: within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from from franchises and other contracts.
Regular forecasts are compiled on financial statements of the Group for the year ended 27 June 2015, and shareholders equity.
Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate the outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. to each business Interest in joint ventures judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs.
In The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have Future growth rates cases where options exist, consideration is also given to the expected under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint life of the contract or franchise.
circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly Exceptional items The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities its financial statements.
On that basis, the Group has departed from the The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income appropriate to the Group require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised and has accounted for statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those Our assessment of impairment and the associated sensitivities are detailed its contractual but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 27.
The Groups investments in the joint venture are accounted for using the Retirement benefit obligations financial performance.
The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially Basis of preparation deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out recognised at cost The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the in note 27.
The Group engages Towers Watson, a global professional services recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards and company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture is included in the interpretations which require adoption in future years have also been listed of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment and our current view of the impact they will have on financial reporting.
appropriate to our particular circumstances.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors such The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m as .
Any change in other comprehensive income of those except when otherwise indicated.
Uninsured claims investees is presented as part of the Groups statement of comprehensive As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart from the The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the income.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in requirements of IAS 19 revised so as to present fairly its financial expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims the equity of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, performance, position and cashflows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order to assess when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and New standards the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its brokers and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately factored in to the are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
time for the financial year ending 27 June 2015: provision for known claims.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of a joint venture is IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements shown on the face of the income statement outside operating profit and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the joint venture.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Sale or Contribution of Assets between The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same Investors and its Associate or Joint Venture reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendment After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendment is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in the joint IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclsoures for Non-Financial Assets venture.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there amendment is objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired.
IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting If there is such evidence, that the Group calculates the amount of impairment amendment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as Share of Profit of a joint IFRIC 21 Levies venture in the income statement.
Adoption of these new standards and interpretations had no material impact Upon loss of joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and on the financial position or reported performance of the Group.
IFRS 12 recognises any retained investment as its fair value.
Any difference between requires new disclosures about material non-controlling interests which are the carrying amount of the joint venture upon loss of joint control and the fair given in note 28. value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in The Group does not expect IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition to have a the income statement.
material impact on the Group when implemented in the year to June 2019.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
com 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised POLICIES CONTINUED as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise Rendering of services franchise extension.
The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger transport Share based payment transactions and rail passenger transport.
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting equity-settled transport authorities.
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income not related to performance or service non-vesting conditions : performance allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts conditions a vesting condition : and service conditions a vesting condition.
and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period on tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, whereas become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs.
The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of services the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income is subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
within the control of the Group or the employee are not met.
Rental income No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market straight-line basis over the lease term.
or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is Profit and revenue sharing support agreements cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements with any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
An accrual is made within amounts payable to central Government for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the Exceptional items balance sheet date.
Payments are charged to operating costs.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of Property, plant and equipment financial performance.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Freehold Finance revenue land is not depreciated.
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the as follows: effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fide-recognition of debt are Freehold buildings and recognised directly in the income statement.
long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the assets are contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
written down to their recoverable amount.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income Government grants statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching repayments outstanding.
conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial income account and is released to the income statement over the expected direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on useful life of the relevant asset.
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Franchise bid costs A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 102 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving Taxation fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and POLICIES CONTINUED as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is Rendering of services franchise extension.
at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity.
The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger transport or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Share based payment transactions Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate and rail passenger transport.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting equity-settled at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities for combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the transport authorities.
options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income not related to performance or service non-vesting conditions : performance in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts conditions a vesting condition : and service conditions a vesting condition.
assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit on tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees or loss: and Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, whereas in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs.
assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of services a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument reverse in the foreseeable future.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income is be measured reliably.
subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future within the control of the Group or the employee are not met.
transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred Rental income and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or straight-line basis over the lease term.
the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
difference is recognised in profit and loss.
and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is Profit and revenue sharing support agreements Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is recognised After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in correlation with the any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts payable to central Government underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in the income statement.
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the Exceptional items the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that balance sheet date.
Software The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise of a franchise.
group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of Property, plant and equipment within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management its expected useful life of three to five years.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Franchise assets to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Freehold Finance revenue Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require the Group land is not depreciated.
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability that exists at that point outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of expected useful lives and the lease terms.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill the related net pension deficit that the Group expects to fund during the Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, franchise term.
When a pension deficit exists at the start of the franchise, of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the unit retained.
as follows: the right to operate the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at the start of the effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease franchise, then a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised, Impairment of assets arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fide-recognition of debt are representing a government grant.
The intangible asset or deferred income The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication Freehold buildings and recognised directly in the income statement.
balance is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of over the period of the franchise.
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, of the assets recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets or cashThe carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the end and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in other a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the assets are Business combinations and goodwill contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments written down to their recoverable amount.
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income Government grants revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
When the grant relates to an expense item, The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets, is determined Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Rentals payable on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial and included in administrative expenses.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether income account and is released to the income statement over the expected direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and useful life of the relevant asset.
longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only Franchise bid costs with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All franchise derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the www.
com 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the POLICIES CONTINUED measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption recognised for the asset in prior years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying In the principal market for the asset or liability, or amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are the Group.
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is market participants act in their economic best interest.
available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would Inventories use the asset in its highest and best use.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares, that are not expected to be used The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the during more than one period, are valued at the lower of cost and net circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of the items to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value unobservable inputs.
represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Cash and cash equivalents financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or measurement as a whole: less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical outstanding bank overdrafts.
assets or liabilities Financial assets and derivatives Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial assets significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable attributable transaction costs.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with interest between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently at the end of each reporting period.
re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the Group verifies income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information statement.
When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a nonin the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change measurement of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not is reasonable.
result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the hedged committee and the Groups independent auditors.
This includes a discussion item affects net profit or loss.
of the major assumptions used in the valuations.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks as they arise.
of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no Provisions longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount can be made.
If the effect is material, expected future cashflows are of the related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised the risks specific to the liability.
in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, Fair value measurement the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, and nonis virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the financial assets, such as investment properties, at fair value at each balance income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used, sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised are disclosed in note 23. as a finance cost.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 104 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to Uninsured liabilities The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is recognised in POLICIES CONTINUED measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
These provide the income statement within finance costs.
recognised for the asset in prior years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying excess limits.
A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group In the principal market for the asset or liability, or the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair useful life.
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
for the asset or liability Non-current assets held for sale advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect securities is the published bid price.
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through been reported to the Group by the insurer.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that Group recognises  costs.
When a settlement eliminating regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is Treasury shares market participants act in their economic best interest.
all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its in shareholders funds as a separate reserve for own shares.
Any gain or loss assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred Inventories gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which use the asset in its highest and best use.
from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares, that are not expected to be used the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the Retirement benefits during more than one period, are valued at the lower of cost and net Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are charged circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are recognised in the items to their present location and condition.
As discussed below, the Group has invoked the represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
Rail schemes provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Cash and cash equivalents from the requirements of IAS 19 revised in respect of the Rail Pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and Schemes RPS.
into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes measurement as a whole: Bus schemes less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
A liability or separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which outstanding bank overdrafts.
assets or liabilities asset is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine Financial assets and derivatives Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial assets significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable asset including as appropriate the impact of any minimum funding the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is requirements represents the deficit or surplus that the Group expects advice.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable to fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
This represents a defined benefit liability or asset.
departure from IAS 19 revised so as to present fairly the Groups financial Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price performance, position and cashflow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on plan assets a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with interest excluding net interest are recognised in the statement of comprehensive between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by income in the period in which they occur.
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently at the end of each reporting period.
com 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendment 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer Plants 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.
For accounting policies see Interest in joint ventures in note 2.
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
The operations of Go-Ahead North America ceased at the end of July 2014.
Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted services in London.
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail franchises: Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with DfT.
Each company targets similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group Chief Executive.
The registered office of Keolis UK Limited is in England and Wales.
The Go-Ahead North America division comprised a 50% investment in a US school bus operation.
The Groups share of the profit of this division was nil 2014: nil, and it was therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within regional bus until it ceased trading at the end of July 2014.
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the year ended 28 June 2014.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 106 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Year ended 27 June 2015 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Regional London Total Total New standards and interpretations not applied bus bus bus Rail operations The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these m m m m m financial statements: Segment revenue 384.8 469.7 854.5 2,414.0 3,268.5 Effective date Inter-segment revenue 24.9 11.8 36.7 16.6 53.3 International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after Group revenue 359.9 457.9 817.8 2,397.4 3,215.2 IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendment 1 July 2014 Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014 exceptional items 313.2 415.6 728.8 2,371.7 3,100.5 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation, Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 goodwill impairment and exceptional items 46.7 42.3 89.0 25.7 114.7 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 Intangible amortisation 1.6 1.8 3.4 0.8 4.2 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016 Goodwill impairment 4.9 4.9 4.9 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer Plants 1 January 2016 Exceptional items 8.8 8.8 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation Group operating profit 40.2 40.5 80.7 16.1 96.8 and Amortisation 1 January 2016 Net finance costs 18.1 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Sale or Contribution of Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 78.7 Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 1 January 2016 Tax expense 19.4 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016 Profit for the year 59.3 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Other segment information The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
For accounting policies see Interest in joint Capital expenditure: ventures in note 2.
Additions 28.0 8.1 36.1 6.2 42.3 For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
The operations of Go-Ahead North Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 0.4 6.9 7.3 America ceased at the end of July 2014.
Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and Intangible fixed assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 4.9 6.1 similar nature of their products and services, as follows: Depreciation 27.5 18.2 45.7 24.8 70.5 The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
At 27 June 2015, there were non-current assets of nil 2014: nil and current assets of nil 2014: 1.8m relating to US operations, which were made up The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted entirely of loans in Go-Ahead North America.
The US operation ceased trading on 25 July 2014.
For the year ended 27 June 2015, segment revenue for this services in London.
venture was less than 0.1m 2014: 1.7m and segment profit was nil 2014: nil.
On termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid.
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail franchises: During the year ended 27 June 2015, segment revenue from external customers outside the United Kingdom related entirely to the Go-Ahead North America Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company joint venture.
has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with DfT.
Each company targets Year ended 28 June 2014 similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group Regional London Total Total Chief Executive.
bus bus bus Rail operations The Go-Ahead North America division comprised a 50% investment in a US school bus operation.
The Groups share of the profit of this division was m m m m m nil 2014: nil, and it was therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within regional bus until it ceased trading at the end Segment revenue 372.3 459.7 832.0 1,907.2 2,739.2 of July 2014.
Inter-segment revenue 21.5 10.0 31.5 5.3 36.8 The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities Group revenue 350.8 449.7 800.5 1,901.9 2,702.4 and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding Operating costs excluding amortisation and exceptional items 308.9 408.1 717.0 1,882.2 2,599.2 amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation and Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
exceptional items 41.9 41.6 83.5 19.7 103.2 Intangible amortisation 1.4 2.0 3.4 2.4 5.8 The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the year ended 28 June 2014.
Exceptional items 6.6 8.5 15.1 3.0 12.1 Group operating profit 47.1 48.1 95.2 14.3 109.5 Net finance costs 18.3 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 91.2 Tax expense 13.6 Profit for the year 77.6 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 52.4 8.9 61.3 8.2 69.5 Intangible fixed assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 0.5 1.7 Depreciation 28.9 16.3 45.2 15.5 60.7 www.
com 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
GROUP REVENUE This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
2015 2014 m m Rendering of services 3,208.6 2,574.6 Rental income 10.0 9.3 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 3.4 118.5 Group revenue 3,215.2 2,702.4 5.
OPERATING COSTS EXCLUDING AMORTISATION, GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue sharing support agreements, Property, plant and equipment, Government grants and Franchise bid costs in note 2.
2015 2014 m m Staff costs note 6 1,079.6 929.2 Operating lease payments bus vehicles 16.6 18.4 non-rail properties 2.6 2.8 other non-rail 0.1 0.1 rail rolling stock 410.9 320.2 other rail 88.0 65.8 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 518.2 407.3 rail access charges 489.9 461.1 2 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 1,008.1 868.4 DfT Franchise agreement payments 228.6 182.5 Other operating income 24.8 25.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 69.4 51.9 leased assets 1.1 8.8 Total depreciation expense 70.5 60.7 Auditors remuneration audit of the financial statements EY 0.5 0.5 audit of the financial statements Grant Thornton 0.1 taxation services 0.1 0.1 other services 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 0.7 0.7 Trade receivables not recovered 0.3 0.1 Energy costs bus fuel 118.4 112.9 rail diesel fuel 9.6 10.6 rail electricity EC4T 109.5 84.6 cost of site energy 15.2 11.7 Total energy costs 252.7 219.8 Government grants 8.0 2.8 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.2 Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 10.7 8.1 Other operating costs 482.5 356.8 Total operating costs 3,100.5 2,599.2 1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 531.7m 2014: 423.9m, net of sublease payments of 13.5m 2014: 16.6m relating to other rail leases.
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of 1,021.6m 2014: 885.0m, net of sublease payments of 13.5m 2014: 16.6m relating to other rail leases.
The fee relating to the audit of the financial statements can be analysed between audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements of 0.1m 2014: 0.2m and audit of subsidiaries financial statements of 0.4m 2014: 0.4m.
During the year, 1.5m 2014: 1.8m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 108 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
GROUP REVENUE This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit and employees.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2. of grant.
The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year.
For accounting policies see Share based payment 2015 2014 m m transactions in note 2.
2015 2014 Rendering of services 3,208.6 2,574.6 m m Rental income 10.0 9.3 Wages and salaries 915.4 793.5 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 3.4 118.5 Social security costs 80.5 69.8 Group revenue 3,215.2 2,702.4 Other pension costs 82.1 63.7 5.
OPERATING COSTS EXCLUDING AMORTISATION, GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Share based payments charge 1.6 2.2 Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue sharing support agreements, 1,079.6 929.2 Property, plant and equipment, Government grants and Franchise bid costs in note 2.
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: 2015 2014 m m 2015 2014 Staff costs note 6 1,079.6 929.2 Administration and supervision 2,964 2,452 Operating lease payments Maintenance and engineering 2,651 2,302 bus vehicles 16.6 18.4 Operations 20,545 19,038 non-rail properties 2.6 2.8 26,160 23,792 other non-rail 0.1 0.1 rail rolling stock 410.9 320.2 The information required by Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is provided in the other rail 88.0 65.8 directors remuneration report.
In addition, total directors emoluments are shown in the table below: 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 518.2 407.3 2015 2014 000 000 rail access charges 489.9 461.1 2 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 1,008.1 868.4 Group Chief Executive 2,163 1,960 Group Finance Director 1,265 1,299 DfT Franchise agreement payments 228.6 182.5 Non-executive directors 320 326 Other operating income 24.8 25.5 3,748 3,585 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Sharesave scheme owned assets 69.4 51.9 Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option scheme, leased assets 1.1 8.8 known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Group and its operating Total depreciation expense 70.5 60.7 companies.
The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months of continuous Auditors remuneration service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into audit of the financial statements EY 0.5 0.5 a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of 5 to a maximum not exceeding 500 audit of the financial statements Grant Thornton 0.1 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
For the February 2014 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set by the Group was 50.
At the end of taxation services 0.1 0.1 the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or take their full savings back.
other services 0.1 The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and Total auditors remuneration 0.7 0.7 conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
Trade receivables not recovered 0.3 0.1 There are savings-related options at 27 June 2015 as follows: Energy costs Scheme maturity 1 May 2017 bus fuel 118.4 112.9 Option price 17.34 rail diesel fuel 9.6 10.6 No.
of options unexercised at 27 June 2015 436,322 rail electricity EC4T 109.5 84.6 No.
of options exercised during the year 164 cost of site energy 15.2 11.7 No.
of options exercisable at 27 June 2015 Total energy costs 252.7 219.8 The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 27 June 2015 was 0.3m 2014: 0.1m.
Government grants 8.0 2.8 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.2 Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 10.7 8.1 Other operating costs 482.5 356.8 Total operating costs 3,100.5 2,599.2 1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 531.7m 2014: 423.9m, net of sublease payments of 13.5m 2014: 16.6m relating to other rail leases.
com 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
STAFF COSTS CONTINUED The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 2015 2014 2015 WAEP 2014 WAEP No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 461,575 17.34 Granted during the year 464,407 17.34 Forfeited during the year 25,089 17.34 2,832 17.34 Exercised during the year 164 17.34 Outstanding at the end of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34 The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 17.34 2014: n a.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.83 years 2014: 2.83 years.
These options are exercisable at 17.34 2014: 17.34.
Long Term Incentive Plans The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the LTIP.
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 27 June 2015 was 0.4m 2014: 1.8m.
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were: 2015 2014 % per annum % per annum The Go-Ahead Group plc Future share price volatility 22.0 24.0 FTSE Mid-250 index comparator Future share price volatility 20.0 25.0 Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 23.49 2014: 15.63.
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 259,145 293,863 Granted during the year 34,996 49,958 Forfeited during the year 36,350 58,798 Exercised during the year 76,489 25,878 Outstanding at the end of the year 181,302 259,145 At the year end, 96,348 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 26.98 2014: 23.67.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.66 years 2014: 0.79 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised was 24.11 2014: 21.32.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
The shares are deferred over a three year period.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the DSBP.
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 27 June 2015 was 0.9m 2014: 0.3m.
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 25.71 2014: 16.39.
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 56,086 14,204 Granted during the year 87,320 46,624 Forfeited during the year 5,270 2,789 Exercised during the year 1,992 1,953 Outstanding at the end of the year 136,144 56,086 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
STAFF COSTS CONTINUED Deferred Share Bonus Plan continued At the year end, 14,204 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 26.98 2014: 23.67.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 2015 2014 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.54 years 2014: 1.75 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised 2015 WAEP 2014 WAEP was 23.96 2014: 20.19.
Share incentive plans Outstanding at the beginning of the year 461,575 17.34 The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Granted during the year 464,407 17.34 The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date Forfeited during the year 25,089 17.34 2,832 17.34 they are invited to participate in the plan.
Exercised during the year 164 17.34 The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, Outstanding at the end of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34 although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 17.34 2014: n a. to the Group and employees.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period.
For accounting policies see Long Term Incentive Plans Exceptional items in note 2.
The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain 2015 2014 other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
m m Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the LTIP.
Pension plan curtailment gain 15.1 The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 27 June 2015 was 0.4m 2014: 1.8m.
Rail restructuring costs 8.8 3.0 The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which Total exceptional items 8.8 12.1 the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were: Year ended 27 June 2015 2015 2014 % per annum % per annum Total exceptional items in the year were 8.8m relating to rail restructuring costs of the GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Greater Northern together with Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Future share price volatility 22.0 24.0 Year ended 28 June 2014 FTSE Mid-250 index comparator Total exceptional items in the year were a net gain of 12.1m.
Future share price volatility 20.0 25.0 The pension plan curtailment gain of 15.1m arose on closure of the defined benefit scheme.
This reduced the Groups exposure to further increasing benefits: Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 current members existing benefits were preserved but no further benefits will accrue, resulting in an adjustment to the Groups future liabilities.
This was non-recurring and non-cash.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 23.49 2014: 15.63.
In order to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line, London Midland restructured The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: front line and head office personnel.
FINANCE REVENUE AND COSTS Outstanding at the beginning of the year 259,145 293,863 Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits.
Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans.
For accounting Granted during the year 34,996 49,958 policies see Finance revenue and Interest-bearings loans and borrowings in note 2.
Forfeited during the year 36,350 58,798 2015 2014 Exercised during the year 76,489 25,878 m m Outstanding at the end of the year 181,302 259,145 Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 2.4 1.4 Other interest receivable 0.1 At the year end, 96,348 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 26.98 2014: 23.67.
Finance revenue 2.4 1.5 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.66 years 2014: 0.79 years.
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.5 3.2 Deferred Share Bonus Plan Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.2 11.2 The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional Other interest payable 2.8 1.9 on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further Unwinding of discounting on provisions 1.4 1.1 details of the DSBP.
Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.2 0.4 The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 27 June 2015 was 0.9m 2014: 0.3m.
Interest on net pension liability 2.4 2.0 The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at Finance costs 20.5 19.8 the date of grant.
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 56,086 14,204 Granted during the year 87,320 46,624 Forfeited during the year 5,270 2,789 Exercised during the year 1,992 1,953 Outstanding at the end of the year 136,144 56,086 www.
com 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
TAXATION This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax liabilities held across the Group.
For accounting policies see Taxation in note 2. a.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity 2015 2014 m m Current tax charge 25.0 13.5 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.4 0.9 24.6 12.6 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% 2014: 20% 4.8 7.6 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.4 0.2 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6 Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 2015 2014 m m Tax on remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 4.9 2.9 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 4.0 0.4 Deferred tax on LTIP 0.3 0.5 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.4 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 0.6 2.5 b. Reconciliation A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Groups effective tax rate for the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 78.7 91.2 At United Kingdom tax rate of 20.75% 2014: 22.5% 16.3 20.5 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.4 0.9 Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 3.7 1.6 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.4 0.2 Effect of changes in tax rates 0.2 1.0 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6 Effective tax rate 24.7% 14.9% The normalised tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015, excluding the impact of goodwill impairment of 4.9m, is 23.2%.
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 28 June 2014, excluding the impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction, is 22.4%.
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 2015 2014 m m Current tax liability at start of year 10.6 10.5 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 24.6 12.6 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 Paid in the year 20.3 12.4 Current tax liability at end of year 14.9 10.6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 112 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
TAXATION d. Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
For accounting policies see Taxation in note 2.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity Deferred tax liability 2015 2014 m m Accelerated capital allowances 29.6 30.6 Current tax charge 25.0 13.5 Other temporary differences 1.1 2.8 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.4 0.9 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 15.4 17.4 24.6 12.6 Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 46.1 50.8 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% 2014: 20% 4.8 7.6 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.4 0.2 Deferred tax asset Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 12.0 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6 Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 11.9 12.0 Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Tax on remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 4.9 2.9 Accelerated capital allowances 1.5 2.6 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 Revaluation 0.9 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 4.0 0.4 Retirement benefit obligations 4.9 0.5 Deferred tax on LTIP 0.3 0.5 Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.9 3.6 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.4 Temporary differences arising on unwinding of leasing arrangements 1.6 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 0.6 2.5 Other temporary differences 0.4 0.7 4.8 7.6 b. Reconciliation A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Groups effective tax Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 0.2 rate for the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 is as follows: Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 2015 2014 Deferred tax expense 5.2 1.0 m m A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% came into effect on 1 April 2014.
A further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 78.7 91.2 21% to 20% came into effect on 1 April 2015.
As proposed in the summer Budget 2015, the rates of corporation tax are going to be reduced to 18% in 2020, with an interim reduction to 19% in 2017.
At United Kingdom tax rate of 20.75% 2014: 22.5% 16.3 20.5 These proposals were included in the draft Finance Bill 2015 which was not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, therefore the currently enacted Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.4 0.9 20% rate has been applied to deferred tax liabilities assets at the year end.
Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 3.7 1.6 If the reduction to 18% had been enacted at the balance sheet date, the Groups deferred tax liability would have been reduced by 4.6m to 41.5m, Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.4 0.2 and the deferred tax asset would have been reduced by 1.2m to 10.7m.
Effect of changes in tax rates 0.2 1.0 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 10.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Tax reported in consolidated income statement 19.4 13.6 Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number Effective tax rate 24.7% 14.9% of shares in issue during the year.
This note also includes adjusted earnings per share, which shows a normalised earnings per share following elimination of the impact of amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional items.
The normalised tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015, excluding the impact of goodwill impairment of 4.9m, is 23.2%.
Basic and diluted earnings per share The normalised tax rate for the year ended 28 June 2014, excluding the impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction, is 22.4%.
2015 2014 m m c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 70.3 A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: Consisting of: 2015 2014 m m Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 64.7 63.7 Current tax liability at start of year 10.6 10.5 Amortisation and goodwill impairment after taxation and non-controlling interests 8.0 3.9 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 24.6 12.6 Exceptional items after taxation and non-controlling interests 4.5 10.5 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 70.3 Paid in the year 20.3 12.4 Current tax liability at end of year 14.9 10.6 www.
com 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED 2015 2014 Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,916 42,854 Dilutive potential share options 000 754 448 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,670 43,302 Earnings per share: Basic earnings per share pence per share 121.6 164.0 Diluted earnings per share 119.5 162.4 Adjusted basic earnings per share 150.8 148.6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 148.2 147.1 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 27 June 2015 to 2 September 2015.
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on exceptional items and amortisation is shown below for each of the periods.
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible and goodwill amortisation and exceptional items in order to show a normalised earnings per share.
This is analysed as follows: Year ended 27 June 2015 Amortisation and Profit for goodwill 2015 the year impairment Exceptional items Total m m m m Profit before taxation 78.7 9.1 8.8 96.6 Less: Taxation 19.4 0.9 1.8 22.1 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.1 0.2 2.5 9.8 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 64.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 150.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 148.2 Year ended 28 June 2014 Profit for 2014 the year Amortisation Exceptional items Total m m m m Profit before taxation 91.2 5.8 12.1 84.9 Less: Taxation 13.6 1.3 2.4 12.5 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.3 0.6 0.8 8.7 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 3.9 10.5 63.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 148.6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 147.1 11.
DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November.
2015 2014 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share 2013: 55.5p 25.3 23.8 Interim dividend for 2015: 26.6p per share 2014: 25.5p 11.4 10.9 36.7 34.7 2015 2014 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 27 June 2015 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share 2014: 59.0p 27.2 25.3 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 114 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2015 2014 The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment in note 2.
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,916 42,854 Freehold land Leasehold land Plant and Dilutive potential share options 000 754 448 and buildings and properties Bus vehicles equipment Total Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,670 43,302 m m m m m Cost: Earnings per share: At 29 June 2013 176.7 15.5 493.3 178.4 863.9 Basic earnings per share pence per share 121.6 164.0 Additions 10.6 0.9 52.5 5.5 69.5 Diluted earnings per share 119.5 162.4 Disposals 1.8 1.8 25.6 3.4 32.6 Adjusted basic earnings per share 150.8 148.6 Transfer categories 0.3 0.3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 148.2 147.1 Transfer of assets held for resale 1.8 1.8 At 28 June 2014 183.7 14.6 520.5 180.2 899.0 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
Additions 1.8 31.2 9.3 42.3 No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 27 June 2015 to 2 September 2015.
Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 6.9 7.3 The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on exceptional items and amortisation is shown below for each of the periods.
Disposals 10.9 6.8 17.7 Adjusted earnings per share Transfer of assets held for resale 0.2 0.2 Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible and goodwill amortisation and exceptional items in order to show At 27 June 2015 185.7 14.6 541.2 189.6 931.1 a normalised earnings per share.
This is analysed as follows: Year ended 27 June 2015 Depreciation and impairment: Amortisation and At 29 June 2013 14.4 5.6 252.3 134.0 406.3 Profit for goodwill 2015 the year impairment Exceptional items Total Charge for the year 5.6 1.1 39.2 14.8 60.7 m m m m Disposals 0.7 23.8 1.7 26.2 Profit before taxation 78.7 9.1 8.8 96.6 Transfer of assets held for resale 0.4 0.4 Less: Taxation 19.4 0.9 1.8 22.1 At 28 June 2014 19.6 6.0 267.7 147.1 440.4 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.1 0.2 2.5 9.8 Charge for the year 9.2 1.4 39.9 20.0 70.5 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 64.7 Disposals 10.6 6.6 17.2 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 150.8 At 27 June 2015 28.8 7.4 297.0 160.5 493.7 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 148.2 Net book value: Year ended 28 June 2014 Profit for 2014 At 27 June 2015 156.9 7.2 244.2 29.1 437.4 the year Amortisation Exceptional items Total At 28 June 2014 164.1 8.6 252.8 33.1 458.6 m m m m At 29 June 2013 162.3 9.9 241.0 44.4 457.6 Profit before taxation 91.2 5.8 12.1 84.9 The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: Less: Taxation 13.6 1.3 2.4 12.5 2015 2014 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.3 0.6 0.8 8.7 m m Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 3.9 10.5 63.7 Bus vehicles 1.3 1.9 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 148.6 Plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 147.1 1.4 2.0 11.
2015 2014 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share 2013: 55.5p 25.3 23.8 Interim dividend for 2015: 26.6p per share 2014: 25.5p 11.4 10.9 36.7 34.7 2015 2014 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 27 June 2015 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share 2014: 59.0p 27.2 25.3 www.
com 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts.
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Software is amortised over its expected useful life.
Franchise bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract.
For further details see Software, Franchise bid costs, Franchise assets, Business combinations and goodwill and Impairment of assets in note 2.
Franchise bid costs A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Rail franchise asset This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.
Customer contracts This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 116 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Franchise bid costs 2015 2014 m m are amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Metrobus 10.6 10.6 Franchise bid Rail franchise Customer Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Goodwill Software costs costs asset contracts Total Brighton & Hove 2.1 2.1 m m m m m m Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Cost: Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 At 29 June 2013 80.8 16.6 8.7 16.7 13.2 136.0 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Additions 1.2 0.5 1.7 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4 Carousel 2.1 2.1 Additions 3.8 2.3 6.1 Anglian 3.3 Disposals 0.7 1.3 2.0 Chambers 1.6 At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5 75.9 80.8 Amortisation and impairment: The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period.
At 29 June 2013 13.6 7.1 15.2 8.3 44.2 The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated Charge for the year 1.5 0.8 1.5 2.0 5.8 forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.25%-3.0% which reflects Disposals 0.3 0.3 the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
At 28 June 2014 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7 The pre-tax cashflows for all cash-generating units have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.8% 2014: 8.3%, based on the Groups weighted Charge for the year 1.7 0.8 1.7 4.2 average cost of capital.
Impairment 4.9 4.9 The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate Disposals 0.7 1.3 2.0 used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, staff costs and general overheads.
At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8 These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic Net book value: and industry measures and forecasts.
Having conducted sensitivity analysis on these calculations, the goodwill of Anglian and Chambers, has been fully impaired At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 1.2 84.7 during the course of the year following a period of underperformance.
Goodwill totalling 4.9m has been impaired, being the goodwill of these two businesses, At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 2.9 87.7 which are both considered individual cash generating units.
The remaining tangible assets have also been reviewed, with no further impairment necessary, having At 29 June 2013 80.8 3.0 1.6 1.5 4.9 91.8 considered the value in use of the assets at the pre-tax discount rate of 8.8%.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely to impact recoverable amounts.
The change in discount rate would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable Software costs amount, a fall in turnover growth from 2.0% to 1.0% in Plymouth Citybus could cause an impairment of 3.0m unless mitigated through cost controls.
Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.
14. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Franchise bid costs This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and goodwill A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental costs in note 2. incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Year ended 27 June 2015 Rail franchise asset On 8 December 2014, Plymouth Citybus Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations and nine buses from Western Greyhound Limited for a cash consideration of 0.4m.
This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
Net assets at date of acquisition: Total acquisitions Customer contracts Fair value to This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based Group on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
2015 m Tangible fixed assets 0.4 0.4 Cash 0.4 Total consideration 0.4 Acquisition costs of less than 0.1m have been expensed through operating costs.
From the date of acquisition in the year, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of nil and revenue of 0.9m.
Had the acquisition been completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been nil and the impact on revenue would have been 1.5m.
Year ended 28 June 2014 There were no acquisitions during the year ended 28 June 2014. www.
com 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Non-current assets held for sale in note 2.
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 6.0m, consisting of 2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and 3.5m of bus vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.
Of the property, plant and equipment classified as assets held for sale at 28 June 2014, 1.1m was disposed of during the year ended 27 June 2015.
At 28 June 2014, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 72.4m, of which 68.6m represented a payment on account for new rolling stock in Southern Railway Limited and in respect of which it was expected that a sale and operating leaseback would be completed before 27 June 2015.
The remaining 3.8m related to property, plant and equipment available for sale.
INVENTORIES Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Inventories in note 2.
2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 17.9 15.6 The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
2015 2014 m m Current Trade receivables 102.0 124.7 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 1.1 1.0 Trade receivables net 100.9 123.7 Other receivables 66.5 30.6 Prepayments and accrued income 41.8 56.8 Receivable from central government 50.9 41.9 Amounts due from joint venture 1.8 260.1 254.8 2015 2014 m m Non-current Other receivables 0.8 1.2 Trade receivables at nominal value of 1.1m 2014: 1.0m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: Total m At 28 June 2014 1.0 Charge for the year 0.4 Utilised 0.2 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 At 27 June 2015 1.1 As at 27 June 2015, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not Neither past due impaired more Total nor impaired Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days than 120 days m m m m m m m 2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 2014 123.7 114.3 4.6 1.9 1.8 1.1 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 118 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 18.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to comply with DfT short term liquidity requirements.
a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
2015 2014 At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 6.0m, consisting of 2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and 3.5m of bus m m vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.
Of the property, plant and equipment classified as assets held for sale at 28 June 2014, 1.1m was disposed Cash at bank and in hand 145.5 47.5 of during the year ended 27 June 2015.
Cash and cash equivalents 458.7 234.3 At 28 June 2014, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 72.4m, of which 68.6m represented a payment on account for new rolling stock 604.2 281.8 in Southern Railway Limited and in respect of which it was expected that a sale and operating leaseback would be completed before 27 June 2015.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one 16.
INVENTORIES day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
The fair value of cash Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Inventories and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value.
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to 2015 2014 the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula.
As at 27 June 2015, balances amounting to 537.6m 2014: 217.3m were restricted.
m m Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for rail season tickets, which was 172.8m at 27 June 2015 2014: 123.4m.
Raw materials and consumables 17.9 15.6 Non cashflow movements During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group transferred in certain assets and liabilities relating to the handover of the GTR franchise.
Initial cash received The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
by the Group as a result of the rail franchise handover is detailed below: 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES GTR Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, m amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Tangible fixed assets 6.9 2015 2014 Inventories 5.3 m m Trade and other receivables 7.1 Current Trade and other payables 53.9 Trade receivables 102.0 124.7 Provisions 0.2 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 1.1 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 34.8 Trade receivables net 100.9 123.7 Other receivables 66.5 30.6 Prepayments and accrued income 41.8 56.8 19.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts owed to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket Receivable from central government 50.9 41.9 income.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to central government.
Amounts due from joint venture 1.8 2015 2014 260.1 254.8 m m Current 2015 2014 Trade payables 148.9 115.4 m m Other taxes and social security costs 22.8 22.8 Non-current Other payables 106.6 45.6 Other receivables 0.8 1.2 Deferred season ticket income 175.4 123.4 Trade receivables at nominal value of 1.1m 2014: 1.0m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables Accruals and deferred income 254.2 124.6 were as follows: Payable to central government 60.5 116.0 Total Government grants 4.5 9.9 m 772.9 557.7 At 28 June 2014 1.0 Charge for the year 0.4 2015 2014 Utilised 0.2 m m Unused amounts reversed 0.1 Non-current At 27 June 2015 1.1 Government grants 5.2 2.4 5.2 2.4 As at 27 June 2015, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Neither past due impaired more Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms Total nor impaired Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days than 120 days m m m m m m m Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months 2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 2014 123.7 114.3 4.6 1.9 1.8 1.1 www.
com 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
The Group held a dollar loan facility to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on joint venture transactions.
For accounting policies see Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: Year ended 27 June 2015 Current Non-current After one year Effective Within but not more than After interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.01 0-5 years 111.0 111.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.8 1.2 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-3 years 200.0 200.0 Debt issue costs 0.5 0.1 0.6 Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 0.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 310.2 309.5 Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 1.8 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 0.2 311.1 311.3 Cash and short term deposits note 18 604.2 604.2 Net cash 604.0 311.1 292.9 Restricted cash 537.6 Adjusted net debt 244.7 Year ended 28 June 2014 Current Non-current After one year Effective Within but not more than After interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.64 0-2 years 120.0 120.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.4 Dollar loans see below 1.90 0-1 years 2.5 2.5 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-4 years 200.0 200.0 Debt issue costs 0.4 0.8 1.2 Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 7.87 0-3 years 1.2 0.8 2.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 320.0 322.9 Debt issue costs 0.8 0.8 1.6 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 3.7 320.8 324.5 Cash and short term deposits note 18 281.8 281.8 Net debt 278.1 320.8 42.7 Restricted cash 217.3 Adjusted net debt 260.0 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 120 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS Analysis of Group net debt Cash and cash Syndicated loan Hire purchase 200m The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
equivalents facility Dollar loan finance leases sterling bond Total The Group held a dollar loan facility to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on joint venture transactions.
For accounting policies see m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
29 June 2013 248.9 133.0 3.2 3.6 200.0 90.9 Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings Cashflow 32.9 13.0 0.7 1.6 48.2 The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: 28 June 2014 281.8 120.0 2.5 2.0 200.0 42.7 Year ended 27 June 2015 Cashflow 287.6 9.0 2.5 1.7 300.8 Current Non-current On handover of rail franchise 34.8 34.8 After one year 27 June 2015 604.2 111.0 0.3 200.0 292.9 Effective Within but not more than After interest rate one year five years five years Total Syndicated loan facility % Maturity m m m m On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, replacing the previous 275.0m five year syndicated Syndicated loans see below 1.01 0-5 years 111.0 111.0 loan facility.
The new loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.8 1.2 The new facility had an initial maturity of July 2019, with two one-year extensions, one of which was agreed on 1 July 2015, extending the maturity of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-3 years 200.0 200.0 facility to July 2020 from that date.
Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 0.3 200m sterling 7.5 year bond Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 310.2 309.5 On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.
Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 1.8 Dollar loan Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture.
The joint venture gross of debt issue costs 0.2 311.1 311.3 ceased trading on 25 July 2014, and on termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid and the facility subsequently cancelled.
Cash and short term deposits note 18 604.2 604.2 As at 27 June 2015, $nil 2014: $4.3m or nil 2014: 2.5m of this facility was drawn down.
Net cash 604.0 311.1 292.9 The dollar loan was unsecured and interest was charged at US$ LIBOR Margin.
Restricted cash 537.6 Debt issue costs There are debt issue costs of 1.2m 2014: 0.4m on the syndicated loan facility.
Adjusted net debt 244.7 The 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of 0.6m 2014: 1.2m.
Year ended 28 June 2014 The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities.
The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a minimum Current Non-current net interest cover.
At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.
After one year Effective Within but not more than After 21.
FINANCE LEASE AND HIRE PURCHASE COMMITMENTS interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments.
For accounting policies see Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2.
Syndicated loans see below 1.64 0-2 years 120.0 120.0 The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These contracts have no terms of renewal Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.4 or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Dollar loans see below 1.90 0-1 years 2.5 2.5 2015 2014 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-4 years 200.0 200.0 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value Debt issue costs 0.4 0.8 1.2 payments of payments payments of payments Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 7.87 0-3 years 1.2 0.8 2.0 m m m m Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 320.0 322.9 Within one year 0.2 0.2 1.3 1.2 Debt issue costs 0.8 0.8 1.6 After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.8 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings Total minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3 2.2 2.0 gross of debt issue costs 3.7 320.8 324.5 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.2 Cash and short term deposits note 18 281.8 281.8 Present value of minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3 2.0 2.0 Net debt 278.1 320.8 42.7 Restricted cash 217.3 Adjusted net debt 260.0 www.
com 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Financial risk factors and management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout 2014 15 and 2013 14, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased for internal benefit.
The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained in note 23.
Interest rate risk The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
The Boards policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on UK money markets.
Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and or interest rate derivatives.
During the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place.
The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in interest rates.
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised issue costs as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 is as follows: Average Within More than rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m m m Year ended 27 June 2015 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.10 111.0 111.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 111.0 111.0 Cash assets 0.54 604.2 604.2 Net floating rate assets liabilities 604.2 111.0 493.2 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 200.3 Year ended 28 June 2014 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.70 2.5 120.0 122.5 Gross floating rate liabilities 2.5 120.0 122.5 Cash assets 0.53 281.8 281.8 Net floating rate assets liabilities 279.3 120.0 159.3 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 7.87 1.2 0.6 0.2 2.0 Net fixed rate liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 200.0 202.0 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 122 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Increase Effect on profit Effect on Financial risk factors and management decrease in before tax equity The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
basis points m m The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed asset 2015 expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 from its operations.
GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest 2014 rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 It is, and has been throughout 2014 15 and 2013 14, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 for internal benefit.
Liquidity risk The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained The Group has in place a 280.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, with two one-year extensions replacing the previous Interest rate risk 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
One of the one-year extensions was agreed on 1 July 2015, extending the maturity of the current facility to July 2020.
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and or interest rate derivatives.
During the years ended 27 June 2015 detailed in note 20. and 28 June 2014 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place.
Available liquidity as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 was as follows: The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised issue costs as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 2015 2014 is as follows: m m Average Within More than Five year syndicated facility 2019 Five year syndicated facility 2016 280.0 275.0 rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total 200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0 % m m m m m m m Total core facilities 480.0 475.0 Year ended 27 June 2015 Amount drawn down at 27 June 2015 311.0 320.0 Floating rate assets liabilities Headroom 169.0 155.0 Variable rate loans 1.10 111.0 111.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 111.0 111.0 The Groups bus vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five year primary Cash assets 0.54 604.2 604.2 borrowing periods.
This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises.
Net floating rate assets liabilities 604.2 111.0 493.2 Foreign currency risk Fixed rate liabilities On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was agreed with RBS to ensure dollar investment in our US joint venture is funded by dollar borrowings to 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 provide an effective foreign currency hedge.
Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase The amount drawn on the facility reflects the investment in and the working capital requirements of the Groups share in its US joint venture.
As the contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 0.3 investment and borrowings are both denominated in US$ this provides a natural hedge over the Groups foreign currency exposure.
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 200.3 The US$ loan facility was repaid in full during the year ended 27 June 2015 on termination of the US joint venture and the facility subsequently cancelled.
Credit risk Year ended 28 June 2014 The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables see note 17 and cash deposits see note 18.
The maximum credit risk exposure Floating rate assets liabilities of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt.
A provision is made where there Variable rate loans 1.70 2.5 120.0 122.5 is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows.
Gross floating rate liabilities 2.5 120.0 122.5 The majority of the Groups receivables are with public or quasi-public bodies such as the DfT.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to Cash assets 0.53 281.8 281.8 be a significant credit risk.
Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated ANet floating rate assets liabilities 279.3 120.0 159.3 or A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies.
The treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any one Fixed rate liabilities given financial institution.
200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 7.87 1.2 0.6 0.2 2.0 Net fixed rate liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 200.0 202.0 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
com 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Contractual payments The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 27 June 2015 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.7 113.8 114.7 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.6 212.9 223.5 Other financial liabilities 4.8 14.3 5.5 24.6 Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 421.9 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 784.7 Year ended 28 June 2014 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3.2 2.2 122.0 127.4 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.4 223.3 233.7 Other financial liabilities 0.9 2.6 1.3 4.8 Trade and other payables 73.2 166.9 109.7 349.8 73.2 181.4 114.5 346.6 715.7 Managing capital The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014.
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA before exceptionals is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 27 June 2015.
The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
Our primary financial covenant under the 2019 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x.
Under the 2019 syndicated loan facility our covenants are 1.32x 2014: 1.59x.
Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 revised of 20.0m 2014: 15.6m resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio for 2014 of 1.45x.
Operating leases The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk of ownership at the end of the contract.
This results in 1.1m 2014: 1.9m of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged to interest.
The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of 20.1m 2014: 27.0m.
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 124 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED 23.
DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Contractual payments A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 based on contractual undiscounted with fuel price fluctuations.
Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives and finance lease hire purchase contracts.
policies see Financial assets and derivatives, Fair value measurement and Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2. a.
Fair values Year ended 27 June 2015 Less than More than The fair values of the Groups financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 and On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total are as follows: m m m m m m 2015 2014 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.7 113.8 114.7 m m 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.6 212.9 223.5 Non-current assets 0.1 Other financial liabilities 4.8 14.3 5.5 24.6 0.1 Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 421.9 Current liabilities 19.1 3.5 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 784.7 Non-current liabilities 5.5 1.4 24.6 4.9 Year ended 28 June 2014 Less than More than Net financial liabilities 24.6 4.8 On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Year ended 27 June 2015 Held for trading Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3.2 2.2 122.0 127.4 Fair value through Total 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.4 223.3 233.7 Amortised cost profit and loss carrying value Fair value Other financial liabilities 0.9 2.6 1.3 4.8 m m m m Trade and other payables 73.2 166.9 109.7 349.8 Fuel price derivatives 24.6 24.6 24.6 73.2 181.4 114.5 346.6 715.7 Net financial liabilities 24.6 24.6 24.6 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 Managing capital 0.3 24.6 24.9 24.9 The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Year ended 28 June 2014 To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
Held for trading No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014.
Fair value through Total Amortised cost profit and loss carrying value Fair value The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA before m m m m exceptionals is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
Fuel price derivatives 4.8 4.8 4.8 In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: Net financial liabilities 4.8 4.8 4.8 Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook 2.0 4.8 6.8 6.8 Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 27 June 2015.
The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 17, 19 and 20 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 200m The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of 213.7m 2014: 217.2m but is carried at its amortised cost of 199.4m.
The fair value of the 200m sterling set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no specific 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded.
The fuel price derivatives were valued actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date.
Under the 2019 All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates.
syndicated loan facility our covenants are 1.32x 2014: 1.59x.
Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 revised The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: of 20.0m 2014: 15.6m resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio for 2014 of 1.45x.
Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Operating leases Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data of ownership at the end of the contract.
As at 27 June 2015, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.
During the year ended 27 June 2015, there were no transfers between valuation levels.
com 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED b.
Hedging activities Fuel derivatives The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
As at 27 June 2015 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 130 million litres for the year ending 2 July 2016, representing approximately 100% of the anticipated fuel usage in our bus division.
As at 27 June 2015 the Group also had derivatives against bus fuel for the 2017 and 2018 financial years of 63 and 31 million litres respectively.
The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.
The Groups hedging policy for the target percentage of anticipated bus fuel usage hedged for the next year and subsequent two years as at 27 June 2015 is as follows: 2016 2017 2018 Percentage to hedge as per Group policy 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% Actual percentage hedged 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% In July 2015 the Group Board approved a special purchase to lock in the 2017 and 2018 fuel costs, increasing the hedging profile for 2016 17 and 2017 18 to 100% at a price of 37.0p and 35.0p for each year respectively.
PROVISIONS A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore often estimated.
The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments.
For accounting policies see Provisions and Uninsured liabilities in note 2.
Restructuring Franchise Uninsured provision commitments claims Other Total m m m m m At 28 June 2014 54.2 48.6 2.4 2.8 108.0 Provided after discounting 31.7 15.6 0.7 48.0 Utilised 14.2 19.1 2.0 35.3 Released 9.3 4.8 0.4 0.4 14.9 Transferred from creditors 0.2 0.2 Handover of rail franchise 0.2 0.2 Unwinding of discounting 0.4 1.0 1.4 At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6 2015 2014 m m Current 75.4 66.3 Non-current 32.2 41.7 107.6 108.0 Franchise commitments comprise 60.1m 2014: 54.2m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our four active rail franchises, and 3.1m 2014: nil provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
Of the dilapidations provisions, 52.1m 2014: 45.4m are classified as current.
All of the 3.1m provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current.
During the year 9.3m of provisions previously provided were released following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions.
The dilapidations will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next three years.
The provisions are based on managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors.
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Of the uninsured claims, 19.1m are classified as current and 22.2m are classified as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually.
It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years.
During the year ended 27 June 2015, 2.0m of the restructuring provision was utilised and 0.4m was released.
The restructuring provision in the London Midland franchise was created to cover the cost of restructuring front line and head office personnel, in order for the franchise to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line.
Within other provisions, 2.8m relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which 0.8m are classified as current, and 2.0m are classified as non-current.
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years.
The remaining other current provision of 0.3m relates to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 126 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Hedging activities Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
For accounting policies see Treasury shares in note 2.
Fuel derivatives Allotted, called up and fully paid 2015 2014 The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure Millions m Millions m to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
As at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7 As at 27 June 2015 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 130 million litres for the year ending 2 July 2016, representing approximately 100% of the anticipated fuel usage in our bus division.
As at 27 June 2015 the Group also had derivatives against bus fuel for the 2017 and 2018 financial years of The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The value has been generated since Share capital the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Groups equity, both nominal value and share premium.
The Groups hedging policy for the target percentage of anticipated bus fuel usage hedged for the next year and subsequent two years as at 27 June 2015 Reserve for own shares is as follows: The reserve for own shares is in respect of 3,955,000 ordinary shares 8.4% of share capital, of which 52,770 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
2016 2017 2018 The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate Percentage to hedge as per Group policy 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% circumstances.
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group has not purchased any shares 2014: no shares purchased.
The Group has not cancelled Actual percentage hedged 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% any shares during the year 2014: no shares cancelled.
In July 2015 the Group Board approved a special purchase to lock in the 2017 and 2018 fuel costs, increasing the hedging profile for 2016 17 and 2017 18 to Other reserve 100% at a price of 37.0p and 35.0p for each year respectively.
The other reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group.
This treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
PROVISIONS A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore Hedging reserve often estimated.
For accounting The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity.
policies see Provisions and Uninsured liabilities in note 2.
Capital redemption reserve Restructuring Franchise Uninsured The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares.
provision commitments claims Other Total m m m m m 26.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.
At 28 June 2014 54.2 48.6 2.4 2.8 108.0 These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
Provided after discounting 31.7 15.6 0.7 48.0 Utilised 14.2 19.1 2.0 35.3 Capital commitments 2015 2014 Released 9.3 4.8 0.4 0.4 14.9 m m Transferred from creditors 0.2 0.2 Contracted for but not provided 52.7 16.2 Handover of rail franchise 0.2 0.2 Unwinding of discounting 0.4 1.0 1.4 The Group has contractual commitments regarding procurement of rolling stock of nil 2014: 103.0m.
The Group will continue to be involved in rolling At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6 stock introduction as part of the Thameslink rolling stock investment programme.
However, the contract signed on 20 July 2013 for the procurement of 116 new vehicles has been financed by a rolling stock leasing company.
As such, the Group does not bear any liability for the new rolling stock.
2015 2014 Contractual commitments m m The Group also has contractual commitments of 22.5m 2014: 213.8m payable within one year, and nil 2014: 18.7m payable within two Current 75.4 66.3 to five years, regarding franchise agreement payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise.
Non-current 32.2 41.7 107.6 108.0 Franchise commitments comprise 60.1m 2014: 54.2m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our four active rail franchises, and 3.1m 2014: nil provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
com 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: As at 27 June 2015 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9 Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2 As at 28 June 2014 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m Within one year 14.7 1.0 243.9 263.9 76.0 In the second to fifth years inclusive 14.2 1.6 62.3 87.9 17.1 Over five years 0.3 3.7 29.2 6.3 306.2 351.8 93.1 The significant increase in operating lease commitments reflects the lease obligations in the GTR franchise and the directly awarded contract in Southeastern which commenced during the year ended 27 June 2015.
Details of the lease cost for the year are shown in note 5.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 Land and Other rail Land and Other rail buildings agreements buildings agreements m m m m Within one year 4.8 2.8 2.1 21.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 11.7 1.3 1.6 Over five years 2.1 18.6 2.8 3.4 23.0 Performance bonds The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 124.3m 2014: 121.7m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2014: 36.3m, and season ticket bonds of 207.2m 2014: 162.9m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
These bonds are supported by a 65% several guarantee from The Go-Ahead Group plc and a 35% several guarantee from Keolis UK Limited.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 128 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a workplace saving scheme for our employees.
We also administer a defined benefit pension The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
There are no restrictions scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals.
The train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
For accounting policies see Retirement benefits in note 2.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: As at 27 June 2015 2015 2014 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total m m m m m m m m m m m Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4 Pre-tax pension liabilities 59.5 59.5 59.8 59.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9 Deferred tax asset 11.9 11.9 12.0 12.0 Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9 Post-tax pension scheme liabilities 47.6 47.6 47.8 47.8 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2 As at 28 June 2014 2015 2014 Rail rolling Rail access Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m m m m m m m Remeasurement gains losses due to: Within one year 14.7 1.0 243.9 263.9 76.0 Experience on benefit obligations 21.9 32.9 54.8 2.8 15.8 18.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 14.2 1.6 62.3 87.9 17.1 Changes in demographic assumptions 206.0 206.0 0.2 52.5 52.7 Over five years 0.3 3.7 Changes in financial assumptions 93.5 93.5 44.1 1.5 42.6 29.2 6.3 306.2 351.8 93.1 Return on assets greater than discount rate 72.3 65.8 138.1 19.4 23.2 42.6 Franchise adjustment movement 131.2 131.2 56.8 56.8 The significant increase in operating lease commitments reflects the lease obligations in the GTR franchise and the directly awarded contract in Southeastern Remeasurement gains losses on defined benefit pension plans 0.7 23.9 24.6 27.7 13.2 14.5 which commenced during the year ended 27 June 2015.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor BUS SCHEMES The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan infrastructure track, stations and depots.
For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Go-Ahead Plan, which consists Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 were as follows: of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows.
2015 2014 The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme.
It was closed to new entrants during Land and Other rail Land and Other rail the year ended 28 June 2014 and replaced by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
The expense recognised for buildings agreements buildings agreements the defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is 11.3m 2014: 9.0m, being the contributions paid and payable.
The expense recognised for the m m m m workplace saving scheme is 1.9m 2014: 0.9m being the contributions paid and payable.
Within one year 4.8 2.8 2.1 21.4 The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a members final In the second to fifth years inclusive 11.7 1.3 1.6 salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the advice of Over five years 2.1 an independent qualified actuary.
Previously, the section had been effectively closed to new entrants, however existing members continued to build up benefits 18.6 2.8 3.4 23.0 under the defined benefit pension scheme.
However, during the year ended 28 June 2014, the Group commenced a formal consultation process with existing Performance bonds members and their representatives to close the defined benefit section to future accrual and to offer members the opportunity to join the defined contribution The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 124.3m 2014: 121.7m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2014: 36.3m, and season section instead.
On 31 March 2014, the defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan was closed to future accrual for all members.
ticket bonds of 207.2m 2014: 162.9m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
The Go-Ahead Plan is a plan for related companies within the Group where risks are shared.
The overall costs of the Go-Ahead Plan have been recognised in the Groups financial statements according to IAS 19 revised.
Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of contributions paid by that These bonds are supported by a 65% several guarantee from The Go-Ahead Group plc and a 35% several guarantee from Keolis UK Limited.
The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 revised cost of the scheme and the aggregate contributions paid.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
This regulatory performance bonds and a letter of credit.
framework requires the Trustees of the Go-Ahead Plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the necessary contributions as part of each triennial valuation.
The last actuarial valuation of the Go-Ahead Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2012.
The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead Plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return seeking assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on plan assets.
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy.
Other pension plans Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan.
This scheme is externally funded and is now closed to new entrants.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
Summary of year end assumptions 2015 2014 % % Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0 Discount rate 3.8 4.3 Rate of increase in salaries n a n a 1 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 2.0 1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
com 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
2015 2014 Years Years Pensioner 20 20 Non-pensioner 21 21 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown.
2015 Pension deficit % Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2015 2014 m m Employers share of pension scheme: Liabilities at the end of the year 718.7 663.3 Assets at fair value 659.2 603.5 Pension scheme liability 59.5 59.8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 130 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Pension cost for the financial year 2015 2014 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting m m assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
Service cost 4.8 2015 2014 Years Years Administration costs 2.2 1.9 Settlement loss 0.5 Pensioner 20 20 Interest cost on net liabilities 2.4 2.0 Non-pensioner 21 21 Total pension costs 5.1 8.7 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 2015 2014 of the change in the key assumptions.
m m 2015 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 663.3 617.3 Pension deficit % Service cost 6.9 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 Interest cost 27.2 28.2 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 Remeasurement gains losses due to: Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% n a Experience on benefit obligations 21.9 2.8 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 Changes in financial assumptions 93.5 44.1 Curtailments 15.1 Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation Transfer payments 17.9 The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014.
Benefits paid 25.5 21.1 2015 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 718.7 663.3 m June 2016 25.6 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 2015 2014 June 2017 26.4 m m June 2018 27.3 Fair value of assets at start of year 603.5 569.6 June 2019 28.2 Interest income of plan assets 24.8 26.2 June 2020 29.1 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 72.3 19.4 June 2021 to June 2035 568.0 Administration costs 2.2 1.9 2014 Group contributions 4.7 9.2 m Employee contributions including age related rebates 2.1 June 2015 20.5 Transfer payments 18.4 June 2016 21.2 Benefits paid 25.5 21.1 June 2017 21.9 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 659.2 603.5 June 2018 22.6 Estimated contributions for future June 2019 23.3 m June 2020 to June 2034 456.0 Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2016 4.8 Category of assets at the year end Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2016 2015 2014 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2016 4.8 m % m % Equities 254.3 38.6 206.4 34.2 RAIL SCHEMES Bonds 15.9 2.4 34.4 5.7 The Railways Pension Scheme RPS The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared costs Property 61.4 9.3 33.8 5.6 scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
The RPS sections are all open to new entrants and the Liability driven investing portfolio 306.1 46.4 315.0 52.2 assets and liabilities of each companys section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes.
Cash other 21.5 3.3 13.9 2.3 BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of 0.8m 2014: 0.9m were paid in the year.
659.2 100.0 603.5 100.0 It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets.
recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
However, in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
On entering into a franchise, the Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2015 2014 operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed m m with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.
Employers share of pension scheme: The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
Liabilities at the end of the year 718.7 663.3 Assets at fair value 659.2 603.5 Pension scheme liability 59.5 59.8 www.
com 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Summary of year end assumptions 2015 2014 % % Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0 Discount rate 3.8 4.3 Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3 1 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.3 2.0 1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
2015 2014 Years Years Pensioner 22 22 Non-pensioner 24 24 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013.
Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For rail pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
2015 Pension deficit % Discount rate increase of 0.1% 2.0 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 2.0 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% 0.5 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 1.1 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.1 Category of assets at the year end 2015 2014 m % m % Equities 1,663.6 95.5 1,131.5 89.5 Bonds 64.5 5.1 Property 71.4 4.1 60.7 4.8 Cash 7.0 0.4 7.6 0.6 1,742.0 100.0 1,264.3 100.0 All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2015 2014 m m Employers share of pension scheme: Liabilities at the end of the year 2,290.4 1,601.6 Assets at fair value 1,742.0 1,264.3 Gross deficit 548.4 337.3 Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3 Pension scheme liability The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 132 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Pension cost for the financial year 2015 2014 Summary of year end assumptions m m 2015 2014 % % Service cost 63.2 45.2 Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 Administration costs 3.0 1.9 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 2.0 Interest cost on net liabilities 16.9 12.7 Discount rate 3.8 4.3 Interest on franchise adjustments 16.9 12.7 Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3 Pension cost 66.2 47.1 1 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.3 2.0 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 1 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
2015 2014 m m The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 1,601.6 1,427.4 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting Franchise adjustment 337.3 267.8 assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
1,264.3 1,159.6 2015 2014 Liability movement for members share of assets 94.1 56.6 Years Years Service cost 63.2 45.2 Pensioner 22 22 Interest cost 55.2 44.0 Non-pensioner 24 24 Interest on franchise adjustment 16.9 12.7 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013.
Remeasurement losses gains due to: Experience on benefit obligations 32.9 15.8 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For rail pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact Changes in demographic assumptions 206.1 52.6 of the change in the key assumptions.
Changes in financial assumptions 1.5 2015 Benefits paid 51.7 38.5 Pension deficit GTR franchise award employers share of pension scheme liabilities 354.8 % GTR franchise award franchise adjustment 63.0 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 2.0 Franchise adjustment movement 131.2 56.8 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 2.0 1,742.0 1,264.3 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% 0.5 Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 1.1 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 2,290.4 1,601.6 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.1 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year Category of assets at the year end 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m % m % Fair value of assets at start of year 1,264.3 1,159.6 Equities 1,663.6 95.5 1,131.5 89.5 Interest income of plan assets 38.3 31.6 Bonds 64.5 5.1 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 65.8 23.2 Property 71.4 4.1 60.7 4.8 Administration costs 5.0 3.2 Cash 7.0 0.4 7.6 0.6 Group contributions 41.5 34.0 1,742.0 100.0 1,264.3 100.0 Benefits paid 51.7 38.5 GTR franchise award 291.8 All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Members share of movement of assets 97.0 57.6 Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,742.0 1,264.3 2015 2014 m m Estimated contributions for future Employers share of pension scheme: m Liabilities at the end of the year 2,290.4 1,601.6 Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2016 43.5 Assets at fair value 1,742.0 1,264.3 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2016 29.0 Gross deficit 548.4 337.3 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2016 72.5 Franchise adjustment 548.4 337.3 Pension scheme liability www.
com 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED IAS 19 revised would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the terms of each franchise agreement.
Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the financial statements present fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its legal RPS defined benefit obligations.
In all other respects the Groups accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 revised and the treatment adopted for non-rail defined benefit schemes.
In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 revised in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Groups obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new franchise owner at exit.
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 revised the following adjustments would have been made to the financial statements: 2015 2014 m m Balance sheet Defined benefit pension plan 548.4 337.3 Deferred tax asset 109.7 67.5 438.7 269.8 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement gains 131.2 56.8 Tax on remeasurement gains 26.2 11.4 105.0 45.4 Income statement Operating costs franchise adjustment 16.9 12.7 Deferred tax charge 3.4 2.5 13.5 10.2 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Bus schemes The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, closed to future accrual.
Consequently, the number of defined contribution members increased during the year ended 28 June 2014.
Rail schemes Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within this business.
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: Risk Description Mitigation Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded maturity: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion investments.
of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return funds, and to offset the additional risk, hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should reduce volatility.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
which helps to offset this risk.
Life expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk.
result in an increase in the liabilities.
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these have The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases, reducing risk to legislative change.
The Group takes professional and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment advice to keep abreast of legislative changes.
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax.
The UK Government has legislated to end contracting out in 2016.
Further legislation could result in an increase in the value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
If this legislation is implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation of the arrangements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 134 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Our subsidiaries are located across the country and each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group.
The Group has a number of related IAS 19 revised would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the terms parties including joint ventures, pension schemes and directors.
Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the financial statements present fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its legal RPS The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: defined benefit obligations.
In all other respects the Groups accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 revised and the treatment adopted for non-rail % equity interest defined benefit schemes.
In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 revised Name Country of incorporation 2015 2014 in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Groups obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to Trading subsidiaries a new franchise owner at exit.
2 Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end Go North East Limited United Kingdom 100 100 of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
Go Northern Limited United Kingdom 100 100 If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 revised the following adjustments would have been made London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 to the financial statements: London Central Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 2015 2014 Dockland Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 m m Blue Triangle Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Balance sheet Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Defined benefit pension plan 548.4 337.3 Metrobus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Deferred tax asset 109.7 67.5 Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 438.7 269.8 The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Other comprehensive income Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Remeasurement gains 131.2 56.8 Hants & Dorset Transport Support Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Tax on remeasurement gains 26.2 11.4 Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 105.0 45.4 Konectbus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Income statement Thames Travel Wallingford Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Operating costs franchise adjustment 16.9 12.7 Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Deferred tax charge 3.4 2.5 Hedingham and District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 13.5 10.2 Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 HC Chambers and Son Limited United Kingdom 100 100 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Bus schemes 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Plan, closed to future accrual.
1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Rail schemes 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train operating 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 65 65 The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 1 Govia Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Risk Description Mitigation Go-Ahead Leasing Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom 100 100 reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded Go-Ahead Holding LLC United States of America 100 100 maturity: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion investments.
Jointly controlled entities of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return funds, and to offset the additional risk, Go-Ahead North America LLC United States of America 50 hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom 50 n a reduce volatility.
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, 2 Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc.
All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings.
to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
com 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED % equity interest Name Country of incorporation 2015 2014 Dormant subsidiaries Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go Wear Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Reading Limited United Kingdom 100 100 South Central Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Property Development Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead XX Limited United Kingdom 100 100 GHI Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Southern Vectis Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go Coastline Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go London Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go West Midlands Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Levers Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 MetroCity Newcastle Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Trains Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Victory Railway Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 Govia Northern Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 London & East Midlands Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 North London Orbital Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Abingdon Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Reed Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Gatwick Handling Limited United Kingdom 100 100 GH Heathrow Limited United Kingdom 100 100 GH Manchester Limited United Kingdom 100 100 GH Stansted Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Midland Airport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Oxford Newco Limited United Kingdom 100 100 London General Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Finance Company United Kingdom 100 100 Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Hants & Dorset Trim Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Solent Blue Line Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Southampton Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Tourist Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
Transactions with other related parties The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions to the trustees.
Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to 0.2m 2014: 0.2m.
During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Go-Ahead North America 2014: 50%, a 50:50 joint venture with CookIllinois, and received repayment of all loan capital, leaving a residual investment value of nil 2014: 1.8m.
During the year, 1.8m 2014: 0.3m of loans were repaid to the Group by Go-Ahead North America.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The key management are considered to be the directors of the Group.
2015 2014 m m Short term employee benefits 1.9 2.0 1 Long term employee benefits 2.3 2.0 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1 4.3 4.1 1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 136 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED MATERIAL PARTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 28.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES AND GROUP UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: % equity interest Name Country of incorporation 2015 2014 Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Country of incorporation Dormant subsidiaries and operation 2015 2014 Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% Go Wear Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% Go-Reading Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% South Central Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% Go-Ahead Property Development Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% Go-Ahead XX Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% GHI Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 Subsidiary of Govia Limited.
Southern Vectis Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 2015 2014 m m Go Coastline Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: Go London Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Limited 15.8 14.6 Go West Midlands Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: Levers Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Limited 13.8 11.0 MetroCity Newcastle Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Trains Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
The information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations: Victory Railway Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: 1 Govia Northern Limited United Kingdom 65 65 2015 2014 1 London & East Midlands Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 m m 1 North London Orbital Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Revenue 2,397.4 1,901.8 Abingdon Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Operating costs 2,355.1 1,867.5 Reed Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Intangible asset amortisation 0.8 2.4 Gatwick Handling Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Exceptional items 8.8 3.0 GH Heathrow Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Finance revenue 2.3 1.4 GH Manchester Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Finance costs 2.9 1.5 GH Stansted Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 32.1 28.8 Midland Airport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Tax expense 11.8 7.9 Oxford Newco Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Profit for the year from controlling operations 20.3 20.9 London General Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Total comprehensive income 39.4 31.5 Go-Ahead Finance Company United Kingdom 100 100 Attributable to non-controlling interests 13.8 11.0 Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12.8 8.6 Hants & Dorset Trim Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies as at 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: Solent Blue Line Limited United Kingdom 100 100 2015 2014 Marchwood Motorways Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 m m Marchwood Motorways Southampton Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Current assets inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 843.7 626.1 The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Non-current assets property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 25.0 36.0 Tourist Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Current liabilities trade and other payables, provisions 815.7 611.6 Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Non-current liabilities provisions 8.0 8.8 Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Total equity 45.0 41.7 Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Attributable to: 1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
Equity holders of the parent 29.2 27.1 Transactions with other related parties Non-controlling interest 15.8 14.6 The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations.
Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 27 June 2015 and 28 June 2014: During the year ended 27 June 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Go-Ahead North America 2014: 50%, a 50:50 joint venture with Cook- 2015 2014 Illinois, and received repayment of all loan capital, leaving a residual investment value of nil 2014: 1.8m.
During the year, 1.8m 2014: 0.3m of loans m m were repaid to the Group by Go-Ahead North America.
Operating 324.9 41.6 Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Investing 45.5 10.1 The key management are considered to be the directors of the Group.
Financing 39.3 26.1 2015 2014 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 331.1 25.6 m m Short term employee benefits 1.9 2.0 1 Long term employee benefits 2.3 2.0 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1 4.3 4.1 1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP.
