Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY 2015 2014 m m Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015 which comprise the Parent THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Company statement of comprehensive income, the Parent Company Profit for the year 72.4 65.5 In our opinion: statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company balance sheet and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been Other comprehensive income losses : properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss the information given in the strategic report and the directors report Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 0.7 12.2 for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 0.1 1.1 consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in 0.6 11.1 accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys BY EXCEPTION Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges 0.4 members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 0.1 report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 0.3 do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches or for the opinions we have formed.
Other comprehensive income losses for the year, net of tax 0.6 11.4 not visited by us: or RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors Total comprehensive income for the year 73.0 54.1 AND AUDITOR remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out accounting records and returns: or on page 142, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true made: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the we have not received all the information and explanations we require Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law for our audit.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards OTHER MATTER for auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have Kathryn Barrow Senior Statutory Auditor been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 2 September 2015 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify Notes: any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 1 The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 27 June 2015: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
