Strategic report Governance Financials 149 Operating lease payments represent the lease payments made in the year relating to renting of office space used by the Group, car leases under contract hire arrangements and operating lease payments relating to office equipment such as photocopiers.
Leases relating to office space used by the Group have initial terms of varying lengths, between one and ten years.
Rent reviews generally take place every five years.
Contract hire car leases generally have a three-year term.
There are no other significant operating lease arrangements requiring disclosure under IAS 17.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The properties in certain subsidiary companies forming a guarantee Group with a market value of 1,281m provide the security for the Groups core debt facility.
Barclays Bank plc and Lloyds Bank plc have provided guarantees under performance bonds relating to the Groups UK Development division.
As at 30 September 2015, total guarantees amounted to 2.8m 2014: 2.9m.
The Group has an obligation, under an agreement for sale in relation to its land at West Waterlooville, to pay further consideration should the site value exceed certain pre-agreed amounts.
It also has an obligation under a profit sharing agreement to share profits above an agreed threshold.
It is not possible to determine the amount or timing of any such future payments due to the long-term nature of the sites development and the associated uncertainties.
However, our current best estimate is that the earliest payment under these arrangements will not be before October November 2016 and any payments are likely to be spread over a number of years.
As explained in more detail in Note 21, there is uncertainty relating to the future of the site at Curzon Park in which the Group has a 50% joint venture interest.
Should the value of the site, together with any compensation received, be insufficient to recover the carrying value of our investment, the Group may incur further charges in excess of those provided in these financial statements, in respect of obligations to the joint venture.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE The Group identified certain of its investment properties as held-for-sale in 2014 in accordance with the criteria set out in IFRS 5.
Included on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are total assets of nil 2014: 3.4m classified as held-for-sale.
The movement in the year is set out below: 2015 2014 m m Opening balance investment property 3.4 9.9 Disposals 3.8 8.6 Transfer from investment property 6.9 2.3 Transfer from investment in joint ventures 14.0 Sale of investment in joint ventures see Note 21 14.0 Transfer to investment property 6.5 0.1 Foreign exchange movement 0.1 Closing balance 3.4 40. BUSINESS COMBINATION Acquisition of Equity Release Increments Limited In January 2014, the Group sold Equity Release Increments Limited ERIL, a retirement solutions subsidiary owning a home reversions portfolio, to Clifden Holdings Limited CHL.
The terms of sale included deferred consideration of 35.1m 40% of the total consideration which was required to be paid no later than January 2015.
CHL intended to fund the payment of the deferred consideration from the proceeds of a securitisation which they subsequently failed to execute.
As a result, CHL failed to pay the deferred consideration when it fell due.
As a result of CHLs failure to settle the outstanding receivable, the Group exercised its rights to appoint administrators of CHL and to re-acquire ERIL for a nominal value of 1 on 2 April 2015.
The acquisition is of a business capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing economic benefit to the Group.
Accordingly, the directors consider this transaction to be a business combination.
