94 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued x Adoption of new and revised Valuation of residential property The Groups residential trading property is International Financial Reporting carried in the statement of financial position standards and interpretations v Assets classified as held-for-sale at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
There are no new standards, amendments Assets are classified as held-for-sale, as The Groups investment property is carried or interpretations that are effective for the defined by IFRS 5, when the assets are in the statement of financial position at first time for the current financial year that available-for-sale in their present condition, fair value.
The Group does, however, in have a material impact on the Group.
the sale is highly probable and it is expected its principal non-GAAP net asset value The Group is assessing the impact to be completed within one year from the measures, NAV and NNNAV, include of the following revised standards and date of classification.
trading stock at market value.
The market interpretations that are not yet effective.
Non-current assets classified as heldvalue of the Groups property which, in the Where already endorsed by the EU, these for-sale are measured at the lower of their case of investment property, is the same as changes will be adopted on the effective carrying amount and fair value less costs to fair value is detailed below.
Where not yet endorsed by sell.
Assets and liabilities classified as heldthe EU the adoption date is less certain.
for-sale are presented separately as current Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 items in the statement of financial position.
2014, effective 2017 financial year: On re-classification, investment property that is measured at fair value continues to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification be measured at fair value.
and Measurement, effective 2019 financial year not yet endorsed by w Acquisition of and investment in the EU : ownshares IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with The Group acquires its own shares to Customers, effective 2018 financial year enable it to meet its obligations under the not yet endorsed by the EU various share schemes in operation.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the 2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the AND ASSUMPTIONS Companys own shares.
The acquisition The Groups significant accounting policies cost of the shares is debited to an are stated in Note 1 above.
Not all of these investment in own shares reserve within accounting policies require management retained earnings.
to make subjective or complex judgements Where the Group buys back its own or estimates.
The following is intended shares as treasury shares it adopts the to provide further detail relating to those accounting as described above.
Where it accounting policies that management subsequently cancels them, issued share consider critical because of the level of capital is reduced by the nominal value complexity, judgement or estimation of the shares cancelled and this same involved in their application and their amount is transferred to the capital impact on the consolidated financial redemption reserve.
The Group performs sensitivity analysis as part of the risk management process.
The Directors consider that a - 1% 2014: 1% movement in interest rates, a - 10 percentage point 2014: 10percentage point movement in Sterling exchange rates and a - 1 percentage point 2014: 1 percentage point movement in house prices represents a reasonable possible change.
Strategic report Governance Financials 95 The results and the basis of each valuation and their impact on both the statutory financial statements and market value for the Groups non-GAAP net asset value measures are set out below: % of properties Fund and for which UK Retirement third-party UK and European German external valuer Residential Solutions management developments Residential provides UKR RS Funds Development Germany Total valuation m m m m m m % Trading property 836.9 220.0 95.3 1,152.2 Investment property 169.1 46.1 142.6 357.8 Financial asset CHARM 93.7 93.7 Total statutory book value 1,006.0 359.8 95.3 142.6 1,603.7 Allsop LLP UK residential 1,160.3 1,160.3 55% Retirement Solutions 338.2 338.2 Grainger Invest 327.2 327.2 100% Tricomm investment valuation 111.5 111.5 100% Financial asset CHARM 93.7 93.7 Abbeville Apartments 22.9 22.9 100% Cushman and Wakefield LLP 142.6 142.6 96% CBRE Limited 95.0 95.0 100% Total assets at market value 1,621.9 431.9 95.0 142.6 2,291.4 Trading property 1,452.8 292.1 95.0 1,839.9 Investment property 169.1 46.1 142.6 357.8 Financial asset 93.7 93.7 Total assets at market value 1,621.9 431.9 95.0 142.6 2,291.4 Statutory book value 1,006.0 359.8 95.3 142.6 1,603.7 Market value uplift 615.9 72.1 0.3 687.7 1,621.9 431.9 95.0 142.6 2,291.4 Net revaluation gain recognised in the income statement for wholly-owned properties 14.6 2.4 3.1 13.9 Net revaluation gain relating to joint ventures and associates 20.2 8.2 28.4 Net revaluation gain recognised in the year 14.6 2.4 20.2 5.1 42.3 The market value uplift is the difference between the statutory book value and the market value of the Groups properties.
Refer to Note 4 for market value net asset measures.
Includes Group share of joint ventures and associates revaluation gain before tax.
See Note 2 iv below for the basis of valuation adopted this year.
Allsop provide vacant possession values used by the Directors to value the financial asset in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1 g. 96 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued portfolio, independently of the Group.
Significant unobservable inputs within the 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Continued Based on the results of that review, Allsop valuation relate to assumptions for house LLP has concluded that they have a high price inflation and the discount rates to degree of confidence in those Directors apply to the cash flows.
The assumptions i UK Residential valuations.
Allsop LLP also recommend the adopted for house price inflation are 3% in The Groups own in-house qualified discount to apply to the vacant possession 2016, 4% in 2017 and 2018, 3.5% in 2019 surveying team provided a vacant valuations to establish the market value and 2020 and 3% thereafter.
The discount possession value for the majority of the of each property.
For property in the UK rates applied to the cash flows range Groups UKR properties as at 30 September Residential portfolio the discounts are between 4.25% and 9.25%.
A structured sample of these established by tenancy type and are based in-house valuations was reviewed by iv Retirement Solutions on evidence gathered by Allsop LLP from Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
All of the property owned by the Group in recent transactional market evidence.
Valuing the large number of properties in the Retirement Solutions portfolio has been After due consideration and challenge of the portfolio is a significant task.
For this valued by the Directors at 30 September Allsop LLP, the Directors have adopted all reason it is undertaken on an external 2015 and is included at Directors valuation of the recommendations made by Allsop inspection basis only.
Invariably, when in the market value numbers presented.
LLP in relation to the discounts, the impact the in-house valuations are compared All of the property owned by the Group of which has been to increase the market to those of the external valuer, around in the Retirement Solutions portfolio value of trading stock in the Groups non- 75% of the valuations are within a small excluding CHARM, was also valued as at GAAP net asset measures by 51.4m and acceptable tolerance.
Where the difference 30 September 2015 by Allsop LLP who are in the income statement by 1.5m as a is more significant this is discussed with external independent valuers.
the valuer to determine the reasons for the valuation, excluding CHARM, places a value difference.
Typically, the reasons vary but ii Grainger Invest GInvest on the assets which is 7.0m 2.1% lower it could be, for example, that further or All of the property owned by the Group than the Allsop LLP valuation.
The financial better information about internal condition in the GInvest portfolio was valued as at asset, CHARM, was valued by the directors is available or that respective valuers 30 September 2015 by Allsop LLP who are in accordance with the accounting policy set have placed a different interpretation on external independent valuers.
Allsop LLP provide comparable sales.
Once such reasons have The market values of the properties vacant possession values for the CHARM been identified the Group and the valuer subject to the assumption that the assets and these are used in the assessment agree the appropriate valuation that should dwellings would be sold individually, which of projected future cash flows to be received be adopted as the Directors valuation.
is deemed to be the highest and best use, from the financial asset.
For the assets Overall, across all of the properties valued in their existing condition, and subject valued by Allsop LLP, they undertake a Red by Allsop LLP, the Directors valuations to any existing leases or tenancies was Book valuation on a market value basis were approximately 1.12% higher than the provided by Allsop LLP.
The valuers opinion in accordance with the RICS Valuation Allsop LLP values.
of market value was primarily derived using Professional Standards.
The valuation was Allsop LLP has provided the Directors comparable recent market transactions on based upon an assessment of the vacant with the following opinion on the arms-length terms.
possession value of each property obtained Directors valuation: Property held in the through an external or internal inspection UK Residential portfolios was valued as at iii Tricomm investment valuation by Allsop LLP of approximately 50% of 30 September 2015 by Graingers in-house Allsop LLP has also valued as at the properties in the portfolio within the surveyors.
These valuations were reviewed 30 September 2015 the property assets last 12 months and a desktop valuation of and approved by the Directors.
Allsop LLP owned by the Group and let under a the remainder.
The market value subject has undertaken a comprehensive review long-term lease arrangement with the to tenancy was obtained subsequently of the Directors valuation and they are Secretary of State for Defence under a PFI by taking into account, on a property-bysatisfied with the process by which the Project Agreement.
Allsop LLP has provided property basis, a number of factors, primarily in-house valuations were conducted.
an Investment Valuation which is defined the estimated period until vacant possession As part of the review, Allsop LLP valued as the value of an asset to the owner or a may arise and the appropriate discount rate.
approximately 55% of the UK Residential prospective owner for individual investment or operational objectives.
The Investment Valuation has been made in accordance with RICS Professional Valuation Standards 2014, and is based on a discounted cash flow model.
Strategic report Governance Financials 97 of the GRIP portfolio were carried out at has been assessed on what the Group v Cushman and Wakefield German 30 June 2015 by external valuers, Savills considers to be reasonable assumptions.
In aggregate, the valuation These allow for a 3.9% growth in property The whole of the property portfolio in of the individual dwellings as at 30 June prices between 2016 and 2020 inclusive Germany was valued as at 30 September 2015 was 511.0m for all assets still held followed by growth in house prices of 2015 by Cushman and Wakefield LLP at September.
The assumptions also who are external independent valuers.
of house price movements in those allow for an annual vacancy rate of 7.2% Whilst in the UK, valuers rely predominantly areas where GRIP property assets are in 2016, increasing by 0.1% p. a. thereafter.
on recent transactional evidence for situated the Groups Directors made an In addition, a specific provision of 1.5m similar properties to value investment adjustment to the 30 June 2015 valuations has been made this year to write down property, in Germany investment property based on the movement in house price the book cost of certain properties to is valued using an income capitalisation indices to 30 September 2015 and an their current vacant possession value on approach under which net rental income adjustment for sales, purchases and capital the assumption of sale on vacancy but is discounted to a net present value.
expenditure, in assessing the Groups with no further growth in property prices.
Both methodologies are permitted under share of GRIP net assets for the purposes The Group does sell some property as IFRS 13. of the Groups accounts to 30 September investment sales, a sale with the tenant still vi CBRE UK and European development 2015.
The Groups share of the revaluation in situ.
A net realisable value provision has The current market value of the Groups gain based on the indexed revaluation been made at 30 September 2015 against land and property held within the was 1.5m.
For every 1% movement in projected investment sales.
development segment has been assessed the market value of the GRIP investment In aggregate, a charge of 1.0m has by CBRE Limited who are external property the Groups share of the been made in the 2015 income statement independent valuers.
Their valuation, movement would amount to 1.3m.
2014:credit of 0.5m to adjust the book representing 96% of the total value of The Directors consider the valuations value of residential trading properties to the development trading stock, is on the provided by external valuers to be lower of cost and net realisable value.
A 1% basis of fair value as defined in the RICS representative of fair value.
decrease in house prices would increase Professional Valuation Standards 2014 As required by RICS Valuation the provision by 0.1m, a 1% increase has where fair value is the same as market Professional Standards, all of the external no impact 2014: a 1% increase decrease value.
The remaining 4% of the portfolio is valuers in the UK mentioned above have would decrease increase the provision by a Directors Valuation.
made full disclosure of the extent and 0.1m.
A 1% increase decrease in annual duration of their work for, and fees earned vacancy rate assumptions would have no vii Joint ventures and associates by them from, the Group, which in all cases impact in 2015 2014: increase decrease the The valuation methodology for assets held are less than 5% of their total fees.
within joint ventures and associates is as Land and property held within the described above for each of the divisions Net realisable value of trading property Development segment of the business with the exception of assets held within The Groups residential trading properties are shown in the financial statements at the GRIP Unit Trust GRIP, Walworth are carried in the statement of financial the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Investment Properties Limited WIP position at the lower of cost and net Net realisable value is the expected net and MH Grainger JV Sarl, all of which realisable value.
sales proceeds of the developed property are shown within the Funds division.
As the Groups business model is to sell and a provision is made when, and to the WIP is valued on the same basis as the trading stock on vacancy, net realisable extent that, total projected project costs GInvest portfolio.
MH Grainger JV Sarl is value is the net sales proceeds which the exceed total projected project revenues.
valued on the same basis as the German Group expects on sale of a property with Where land and property is sold without Residential portfolio.
development, net realisable value is the A net realisable value provision has been current market value net of associated made at 30 September 2015 to write down selling costs.
properties expected to be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
The provision 98 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued The assumptions adopt an increase Credit risk arises from the credit exposure 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Continued in house prices of 4.0% per annum.
relating to cash receipts from the financial A change of 1% to average house price instrument.
All of the cash receipts are Decisions regarding whether to develop inflation over the 10-year period from payable by the Church Commissioners, a site or to sell a site undeveloped 1 October 2015 would either increase the a counterparty considered to be low risk are made by the Directors based on valuation by 5.5m 2014: 4.6m or reduce as they have no history of past due or market conditions prevailing at the the valuation by 5.1m 2014: 4.3m.
impaired amounts and there are no past time.
The assumptions adopted as at At 30 September 2015 it is estimated due amounts outstanding at the year end.
30 September 2015 are based upon that, with respect to the Groups financial Distinction between investment and the current intentions of the Directors.
interest in property assets a general In addition, estimates at 30 September trading property increase decrease of one percentage point 2015 of project profitability are based on The Group considers the intention at the in house prices at the statement of financial assumptions regarding projected build costs outset when each property is acquired position date would increase decrease the and sales proceeds for those sites where in order to classify the property as either Groups profit before tax by approximately development is expected to occur.
In some an investment or a trading property.
cases these projections are made without Where the intention is to either trade the There is no additional effect on equity the benefit of planning permission having property or where the property is held as a result of a change in house prices as, been agreed.
for immediate sale upon receiving vacant in accordance with IAS 39 AG8, changes The assumptions made may or may possession within the ordinary course to future cash flow assumptions are not be borne out in practice.
It is possible of business, the property is classified as recognised though the income statement.
therefore that any net realisable value trading property.
Consideration has been given to the provision required should be more than or Where the intention is to hold the current market value of the financial asset less than that made.
property for its long-term rental yield and based on our assessment of a market A charge of 0.2m has been made in or capital appreciation, the property is discount rate.
We have concluded that the the 2015 income statement 2014: credit classified as an investment property.
discount rate as at 30 September 2015 of 0.3m in adjusting the book value of should be the same as the rate adopted at Derivative financial instruments development stock to net realisable value.
This revised discount Fair value measurements for derivative rate is 0.85% lower than the effective Valuation of financial interest in financial instruments are obtained from interest rate when the financial interest was quoted market prices and or valuation property assets acquired.
A 1% change to this discount rate models as appropriate.
When not directly The valuation is based on an assessment would either increase the carrying value by observable in active markets, the fair value of the future cash flows that will arise from 7.4m 2014: 7.8m or reduce the carrying of derivative contracts must be computed our financial interest and on the effective value by 6.4m 2014: 6.8m.
internally based on internal assumptions interest rate used to discount those cash as well as directly observable market flows.
The valuation methodology adopted information, including forward and yield is set out in Note 1 g above.
The key curves for commodities, currencies and assumptions affecting the carrying value interest.
Changes in internal assumptions are house price inflation and the effective and forward curves could materially interest rate.
impact the internally computed fair The fair value of our interest changes as value of derivative contracts, particularly cash flows are realised and an increase of long-term contracts, resulting in nil 2014: increase of 1.0m in the fair corresponding impact on income or loss value has been recognised in the statement in the consolidated income statement.
of other comprehensive income and the The Group utilise an external independent available-for-sale reserve.
valuer, J C Rathbone Associates Limited, to provide recommendations on the internal assumptions which have been fully adopted by the Directors.
Strategic report Governance Financials 99 In addition, as set out on page 29, the Germany wholly-owned assets i Covenant compliance The Group announced on 13 August 2015 The Groups core banking facility has two Directors have considered the Groups viability in detail over a four-year period that it had appointed advisers to assist with covenants, being loan-to-value LTV and the disposal of its wholly-owned residential interest cover.
At 30 September 2015, the to September 2019.
Two different scenarios were modelled to stress-test property assets in Germany.
LTV was40.6% compared to a default Consideration has been given as to level of 75% and the interest cover ratio the business model.
First an aggressive but short-term house price crash with whether the German wholly-owned was 3.1times compared to a minimum assets meet the criteria to be classified as requirement of 1.35 times.
The Group a slow return to growth thereafter and secondly a continuing slow decline in held-for-sale at the statement of financial has other bank debt on which there position date.
Although certain criteria, are also covenant requirements.
The Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation set out in IFRS 5, were considered to have 30 September 2015, the Group is operating been met, the Directors concluded that, comfortably within these requirements.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they at the statement of financial position date, The Directors have reviewed the Groups sufficient work had not been carried out financial projections covering a minimum fall due over the four-year period of their detailed assessment.
to establish a formal plan for sale and that period of at least 12 months beyond the portfolio had not yet been actively the date of signing of these financial marketed.
As a result, the Directors were statements, and which include covenant unable to conclude that all the criteria had compliance forecasts.
These projections been met to confirm that a sale of the show that the Group will comfortably meet assets was highly probable.
Therefore, the its covenant requirements.
Germany wholly-owned property assets ii Banking facilities have not been classified as held-for-sale.
The Groups existing core facilities were 580.0m on 30 September 2015, of which Going concern 483.3m were drawn.
The Group had free The Directors are required to make an cash balances plus available overdraft of assessment of the Groups ability to 45.0m and undrawn committed facilities continue to trade as a going concern for the of96.7m, in total, headroom, of 141.7m foreseeable future.
The Directors have given at30 September 2015.
On 1 October this matter due consideration and have 2015, a revision to the Grainger Invest bank concluded that it is appropriate to prepare facility was concluded with existing lenders, the Group financial statements on a going HSBC and Santander.
The main considerations headroom, on a pro forma basis, to 183m.
were as follows: The Directors have reviewed the available headroom of the Group, and confirmed that even without any further management actions, the Group has sufficient resources to meet future repayments as they fall due.
As has been demonstrated over the past few years, the Group is able to generate strong cash flows even in very difficult general market conditions.
The Groups cash flow projections confirm that the Group will remain well within its facilities for a minimum period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements.
