88 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in acquired based on their fair values, and no conformity with IFRS requires management goodwill or deferred tax is recognised.
a Basis of preparation to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application iii Goodwill and impairment Business Grainger plc is a company incorporated and of accounting policies and the reported combinations are accounted for using domiciled in the UK.
It is a public limited amounts of assets and liabilities, income the acquisition method.
The cost of the liability company listed on the London and expenses.
Although these estimates acquisition is measured as the fair value of Stock Exchange and the address of the are based on managements best the assets given and equity instruments registered office is given on page 170. knowledge of the events and amounts issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and The Group financial statements consolidate involved, actual results ultimately may differ liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed those of the Company and its subsidiaries, from those estimates.
The areas involving a in a business combination are measured together referred to as the Group, and higher degree of judgement or complexity, initially at their fair values at the date equity account the Groups interest in or areas where assumptions and estimates of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the joint ventures and associates.
The parent are significant to the consolidated financial excess of the cost of an acquisition over company financial statements present statements, are disclosed in Note 2. the fair value of the Groups share of net information about the Company and not identifiable assets including intangible about its Group.
b Basis of consolidation assets of the acquired entity at the These financial statements for the i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities date of acquisition.
If the cost of the year ended 30 September 2015 have including special purposes entities over acquisition is less than the fair value of been prepared in accordance with EU which the Group has control.
The Group the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, endorsed International Financial Reporting controls an entity when the Group is the difference is recognised directly in Standards IFRSs, IFRS IC interpretations exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns the income statement.
Costs attributable and those parts of the Companies Act from its involvement with the entity and to an acquisition are expensed in the 2006 applicable to companies reporting has the ability to affect those returns consolidated income statement under the under IFRS.
The Company has elected to through its power over the entity.
prepare its company financial statements Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are the date on which control is transferred to is included within this caption on the presented on pages 151 to 155. the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from statement of financial position.
Goodwill on The accounting policies set out below the date control ceases.
acquisition of joint ventures and associates have, unless otherwise stated, been applied Inter-company transactions, balances is included in investments in joint ventures consistently to all periods presented in and unrealised gains on transactions and associates.
No new between Group companies are eliminated.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating accounting policies have been adopted in Accounting policies of subsidiaries have units for the purpose of impairment testing the year and there has been no change been changed where necessary to ensure and is tested annually for impairment to the basis of accounting estimates in consistency with the policies adopted by and carried at cost less accumulated the year.
Impairment losses on The Group financial statements have goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses been prepared under the historical cost ii Business combinations At the time of on the disposal of an entity include the convention except for the following assets acquisition, the Group considers whether carrying amount of goodwill relating to the and liabilities, and corresponding income each acquisition represents the acquisition entity sold.
statement accounts, which are stated of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
at their fair value: investment property, The Group accounts for an acquisition as a iv Joint ventures and associates Joint derivative financial instruments, financial business combination where an integrated ventures are those entities over whose interest in property assets and assets set of activities are acquired in addition to activities the Group has joint control, classified as held-for-sale.
When the acquisition of a established by contractual agreement.
subsidiary does not represent a business, Associates are all entities over which it is accounted for as an acquisition of the Group has significant influence but asset and liabilities.
The cost of acquisition not control, generally accompanying a is allocated to the assets and liabilities shareholding of between 20% and 50%
