88 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in acquired based on their fair values, and no conformity with IFRS requires management goodwill or deferred tax is recognised.
a Basis of preparation to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application iii Goodwill and impairment Business Grainger plc is a company incorporated and of accounting policies and the reported combinations are accounted for using domiciled in the UK.
It is a public limited amounts of assets and liabilities, income the acquisition method.
The cost of the liability company listed on the London and expenses.
Although these estimates acquisition is measured as the fair value of Stock Exchange and the address of the are based on managements best the assets given and equity instruments registered office is given on page 170. knowledge of the events and amounts issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and The Group financial statements consolidate involved, actual results ultimately may differ liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed those of the Company and its subsidiaries, from those estimates.
The areas involving a in a business combination are measured together referred to as the Group, and higher degree of judgement or complexity, initially at their fair values at the date equity account the Groups interest in or areas where assumptions and estimates of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the joint ventures and associates.
The parent are significant to the consolidated financial excess of the cost of an acquisition over company financial statements present statements, are disclosed in Note 2. the fair value of the Groups share of net information about the Company and not identifiable assets including intangible about its Group.
b Basis of consolidation assets of the acquired entity at the These financial statements for the i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities date of acquisition.
If the cost of the year ended 30 September 2015 have including special purposes entities over acquisition is less than the fair value of been prepared in accordance with EU which the Group has control.
The Group the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, endorsed International Financial Reporting controls an entity when the Group is the difference is recognised directly in Standards IFRSs, IFRS IC interpretations exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns the income statement.
Costs attributable and those parts of the Companies Act from its involvement with the entity and to an acquisition are expensed in the 2006 applicable to companies reporting has the ability to affect those returns consolidated income statement under the under IFRS.
The Company has elected to through its power over the entity.
prepare its company financial statements Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are the date on which control is transferred to is included within this caption on the presented on pages 151 to 155. the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from statement of financial position.
Goodwill on The accounting policies set out below the date control ceases.
acquisition of joint ventures and associates have, unless otherwise stated, been applied Inter-company transactions, balances is included in investments in joint ventures consistently to all periods presented in and unrealised gains on transactions and associates.
No new between Group companies are eliminated.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating accounting policies have been adopted in Accounting policies of subsidiaries have units for the purpose of impairment testing the year and there has been no change been changed where necessary to ensure and is tested annually for impairment to the basis of accounting estimates in consistency with the policies adopted by and carried at cost less accumulated the year.
Impairment losses on The Group financial statements have goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses been prepared under the historical cost ii Business combinations At the time of on the disposal of an entity include the convention except for the following assets acquisition, the Group considers whether carrying amount of goodwill relating to the and liabilities, and corresponding income each acquisition represents the acquisition entity sold.
statement accounts, which are stated of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
at their fair value: investment property, The Group accounts for an acquisition as a iv Joint ventures and associates Joint derivative financial instruments, financial business combination where an integrated ventures are those entities over whose interest in property assets and assets set of activities are acquired in addition to activities the Group has joint control, classified as held-for-sale.
When the acquisition of a established by contractual agreement.
subsidiary does not represent a business, Associates are all entities over which it is accounted for as an acquisition of the Group has significant influence but asset and liabilities.
The cost of acquisition not control, generally accompanying a is allocated to the assets and liabilities shareholding of between 20% and 50% Strategic report Governance Financials 89 of the voting rights.
The accounting policies of joint The title Other has been included in the is the power to participate in the financial ventures and associates have been changed segmental tables in Note 4 to reconcile and operating decisions of the investee where necessary to ensure consistency with the segments to the figures reviewed by but has no control or joint control over the policies adopted by the Group.
Where the Group owns Dilution gains and losses arising on The measure of profit or loss used by the less than 50% of the voting rights but investment in associates and joint ventures CODM is the trading profit or loss before acts as property and or asset manager are recognised in the income statement.
valuation gains or deficits on investment an assessment is made as to whether or properties and excluding all revaluation and c Segmental reporting not the Group has fide facto control over non recurring items as set out in Note 3. an investee.
This includes a review of the The CODM reviews by segment two key The Groups risks and rates of return are Groups rights relative to those of another statements of financial position measures affected predominantly by differences investor or investors and the ability the of net asset value.
These are Gross net between the property asset types it owns Group has to direct the investees relevant asset value NAV and Triple net asset and manages.
An operating segment activities Further detail is provided in value NNNAV measures.
Further detail is is a distinguishable Group of assets and Note 20. provided in Note 4. operations, reflected in the way that the Investments in joint ventures and Transactions between the reportable Group manages its business, that is subject associates are accounted for by the equity segments are based on market prices.
to risks and returns that are different from method of accounting and are initially those of other operating segments.
d Share capital recognised at cost, and the carrying IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS8 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
amount is increased or decreased to requires operating segments to be Incremental costs directly attributable to the recognise the Groups share of the profit identified based upon the Groups internal issue of new shares or options are shown or loss after the date of acquisition.
reporting to the chief operating decision in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from The Groups investment in joint ventures maker CODM to make decisions about the proceeds.
and associates includes goodwill net of any resources to be allocated to segments and accumulated impairment loss identified to assess their performance.
The Groups e Foreign currency translation on acquisition.
CODM is the chief executive.
i Functional and presentation currency If the ownership interest in an associate The Group has identified five such Items included in the financial statements of is reduced but significant influence is segments as follows: each of the Groups entities are measured retained, only a proportionate share of the UK Residential: using the currency of the primary economic amounts previously recognised in other Retirement Solutions: environment in which the entity operates comprehensive income is reclassified to the functional currency.
The consolidated profit or loss where appropriate.
Fund and third-party management: financial statements are presented in The Groups share of its joint ventures UK and European development: and Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys and associates post-acquisition profits German Residential.
or losses is recognised in the income All of the above segments are UK based statement, and its share of post-acquisition ii Foreign currency transactions Foreign except German Residential which has its movements in reserves is recognised in currency transactions are translated at the assets and tenants based in Germany and other comprehensive income.
Where the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the UK and European Development which Groups interest has been reduced to nil, dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets includes assets based in the Czech Republic.
additional losses are provided for, and a and liabilities denominated in foreign More detail is given relating to each of the liability is recognised, only to the extent currencies at the statement of financial above segments in Note 4. that the Group has incurred legal or position date are translated into Sterling The Group has a segment director constructive obligations or made payments at the foreign exchange rate ruling at responsible for the performance of each on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Foreign exchange gains and of these five segments and the Group The cumulative post-acquisition movements losses resulting from the settlement of reports key financial information to the are adjusted against the carrying amount of such transactions are recognised in the CODM on the basis of these five segments.
Each of these five segments operates Unrealised gains on transactions between within a different part of the overall the Group and its joint ventures and residential market.
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in joint ventures and 90 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued After initial recognition, investment 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued g Financial interest in property assets property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is Financial interest in property assets is initially iii Foreign operations The assets and based on active market prices, adjusted, if recognised at fair value plus transaction liabilities of foreign operations, including necessary, for any difference in the nature, costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
goodwill and fair value adjustments location or condition of the specified asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net arising on consolidation, are translated to If this information is not available, the change in value that is recorded through Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling Group uses alternative valuation methods the income statement is as follows: i the at the statement of financial position such as recent prices on less active markets carrying value of the assets is increased date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign or discounted cash flow projections.
by the effective interest rate: and ii the operations are translated at average foreign The majority of investment property falls carrying value of the assets is revised to the exchange rates for the relevant period.
within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as net present value of the updated projected Foreign exchange gains and losses net of defined by IFRS 13.
Further details are given cash flows arising from the instrument deferred income tax are recognised within in Note 29. using the effective interest rate applicable other comprehensive income.
Subsequent expenditure is included in at acquisition.
The change in value recorded iv Net investment hedges Hedges of the carrying amount of the property when through the income statement is shown net investments in foreign operations are it is probable that the future economic on the line Income from financial interest accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
benefits associated with the item will flow in property assets.
Cash received from the Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument to the Group and the cost of the item instrument in the year is deducted from the relating to the effective portion of the can be measured reliably.
All other repairs carrying value of the asset.
hedge is recognised in other comprehensive and maintenance costs are charged to Differences between the updated income within the translation reserve as the income statement during the financial projected cash flows using the effective part of retained earnings.
Any gain or period in which they are incurred.
interest rate applicable at acquisition loss relating to the ineffective portion Gains or losses arising from changes in compared to updated projected cash is recognised in the income statement the fair value of the Groups investment flows using a year end effective interest within Finance costs.
Gains and losses properties are included in the income rate, assessed as the rate available in the accumulated in equity are included in statement of the period in which they arise.
market for an instrument with a similar the income statement when the foreign Where specific investment properties are maturity and credit risk, are taken through operation is partially disposed of or sold.
expected to sell within the next 12 months other comprehensive income with a their fair value is shown under assets corresponding adjustment to the carrying f Investment property classified as held-for-sale within current value of the assets.
When gains or losses Property that is held for long-term rental assets.
Any loss on the reclassification of in the assets are realised, the accumulated yields or for capital appreciation or both, these assets from investment properties fair value adjustments recognised in equity and that is not occupied by the companies to assets held-for-sale is charged to the are included in the income statement as in the consolidated Group, is classified as income statement of the period in which gains and losses from financial interest in investment property.
Investment property is measured In general, however, it is not possible initially at its cost, including related for the Group to identify which properties h Inventories trading property transaction costs.
will be sold within the next 12 months.
Tenanted residential properties held-for-sale Although the size of the Groups property in the normal course of business are shown portfolio does result in a relatively in the financial statements as a current predictable vacancy rate, it is not possible asset at the lower of cost and net realisable to predict in advance the specific properties value.
Cost includes legal and surveying that will become vacant.
charges and introducer fees incurred during acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale proceeds that the Group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
Strategic report Governance Financials 91 Land and property held within the Deferred income tax assets are recognised The liability recognised in the statement development segment of the business only to the extent that it is probable that of financial position is the present value areshown in the financial statements at taxable profit will give rise to a future tax of the defined benefit obligation at the thelower of cost and net realisable value.
liability against which the deferred tax statement of financial position date less the Cost represents the acquisition price assets can be recovered.
fair value of scheme assets.
The defined including legal and other professional costs Deferred income tax is provided benefit obligation is valued by projecting associated with the acquisition together on temporary differences arising on the best estimate of future benefit outgo with subsequent development costs net investments in subsidiaries and associates, allowing for future salary increases for of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
except where the timing of the reversal active members, revaluation to retirement Net realisable value is the expected net of the temporary difference is controlled for deferred members and annual pension sales proceeds of the developed property.
by the Group and it is probable that the increases for all members and then Where residential properties are sold temporary difference will not reverse in the discounting to the statement of financial tenanted or where land is sold without foreseeable future.
development, net realisable value is the Deferred income tax assets and There are no current or past service costs current market value net of associated liabilities are offset when there is a legally as the scheme is closed to new members selling costs.
enforceable right to offset current tax assets and employee contributions.
The net against current tax liabilities and when the interest amount, calculated by applying the i Cash and cash equivalents deferred income taxes assets and liabilities discount rate to the net defined benefit Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in relate to income taxes levied by the same liability, is reflected in the income statement hand, deposits held at call with banks and tax authority on either the taxable entity each year.
Actuarial gains and losses net of other short-term highly liquid investments or different taxable entities where there deferred income tax are reflected in other with original maturities of three months is an intention to settle the balances on a comprehensive income each year.
j Income tax k Employee benefits Income tax on the profits or losses for i Defined contribution pension the periods presented comprises both scheme Obligations for contributions to current and deferred tax.
Current tax is defined contribution pension schemes the expected tax payable on the taxable are recognised as an expense in the income for the year using rates applicable income statement in the period to which during the year.
Tax payable upon the they relate.
realisation of revaluation gains recognised ii Defined benefit pension scheme The in prior periods is recorded as a current Group currently contributes to a defined tax charge with a release of the associated benefit pension scheme that was closed to deferred tax.
new members and employee contributions Deferred income tax is recognised, in 2003.
The full deficit in the scheme was using the liability method, on temporary recognised in the statement of financial differences arising between the tax bases position as at 1 October 2004. of assets and liabilities and their carrying An actuarial valuation of the scheme amounts in the consolidated financial is carried out every three years.
Deferred income tax is of providing benefits is determined using determined using tax rates and laws that the Projected Unit Credit Method, with have been enacted or substantively enacted actuarial valuations being carried out at by the statement of financial position date each statement of financial position date by and are expected to apply when the related a qualified actuary, also under the Projected deferred income tax asset is realised or the Unit Credit Method, for the purpose of deferred income tax liability is settled.
determining the amounts to be reflected in the Groups financial statements under IAS 19.
92 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued l Revenue recognition m Profit recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of Residential and development property iii Share-based compensation The Group the consideration received or receivable is regarded as sold when the significant operates a number of equity-settled, and is stated net of sales taxes and value risks and returns have been transferred to share-based compensation plans added taxes.
This is deemed to be on legal comprising awards under a Long-Term completion.
Profits or losses are calculated Incentive Scheme LTIS, a Deferred Bonus Group revenue by reference to the carring value of the Plan DBP, a Share Incentive Plan SIP Group revenue, set out in Note 5, property sold.
For a development property and a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
comprises gross rental income, service this is assessed through the use of a gross The fair value of the employee services charge income on a principal basis, gross margin for the site as a whole or other basis received in exchange for the grant of shares proceeds before sales costs from the sale that provides an appropriate allocation of trading properties and management fee and options is recognised as an employee of costs.
The total amount to be expensed and other income.
over the vesting period is determined by n Leases i Gross rental income Gross rental income reference to the fair value of the shares is recognised on a straight-line basis over i Group as lessor The net present value and options granted.
For market-based the lease term on an accruals basis.
of ground rents receivable is, in the conditions, the probability of vesting opinion of the Directors, immaterial.
ii Service charges income The Group is is taken into account in the fair value Accordingly, ground rents receivable responsible for providing service charge calculation and no revision is made to the are taken to the income statement on a services in both the UK and in Germany.
number of shares or options expected straight-line basis over the period of the Where Grainger is exposed to the to vest.
For non-market conditions, each lease.
Properties leased out to tenants significant risks and rewards associated year the Group revises its estimate of are included in the statement of financial with the rendering of services, it is acting as the number of options or shares that are position as either investment property or as principal.
Otherwise it is acting as agent.
It recognises the impact of trading property under inventories.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
the revision to original estimates, if any, in Where the Group grants a lifetime lease Accordingly, service charge receivables and the income statement with a corresponding on an investment property and receives payables are shown in the statement of adjustment to equity.
from the lessee an upfront payment in financial position with no amount passing Awards that are subject to a marketrespect of the grant of the lease, the through the income statement.
based performance condition are valued upfront payment is treated as deferred rent In Germany, Grainger acts primarily at fair value using the Monte Carlo in the statement of financial position.
Accordingly, service charge simulation model.
Awards not subject to a This deferred rent is released to the income is shown in the income statement market-based performance condition are income statement on a straight-line basis with service charge recoveries from tenants valued at fair value using the Black Scholes over the projected term of the lease.
recorded as a component of Group valuation model.
At each year end the projected term of the revenue.
Where recovery of service charges When options are exercised the proceeds lease is revised on an actuarial basis and the is doubtful, a provision for impairment received, net of any directly attributable remaining deferred rent is released to the is made.
transaction costs, are credited to share income statement on a straight-line basis capital nominal value and share premium.
iii Sales proceeds from property trading over this revised lease term.
Revenue arising from the sale of trading ii Group as lessee The Group occupies a property is recognised on legal completion.
number of its offices as a lessee.
After a iv Management fee and other income review of all of its occupational leases, Management fee income is recognised in the Directors have concluded that all such the accounting period in which the services leases are operating leases.
including prepayments, made under Management fee income includes operating leases net of any incentives performance fees which are recognised received from the lessor are charged to the in line with contract provisions when the income statement on a straight-line basis revenue can be reliably measured, and over the period of the lease.
there is reasonable certainty that the performance criteria will be met.
Strategic report Governance Financials 93 The net present value of ground rents p Derecognition of financial assets r Trade receivables payable is, in the opinion of the Directors, andliabilities Trade receivables are recognised initially immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent at fair value and subsequently measured Derecognition is the point at which the expenses are taken to the income at amortised cost using the effective Group removes an asset or a liability statement on a straight-line basis over the interest method, less provision for from its statement of financial position.
A provision for impairment The Groups policy is to derecognise in trade receivables is established when financial assets only when the contractual o Derivative financial instruments there is objective evidence that the Group right to the cash flows from the financial Derivatives will not be able to collect all amounts asset expires.
The Group also derecognises The Group uses derivative instruments due.
The amount of the provision is the financial assets that it transfers to another to help manage its interest rate risk.
difference between the assets carrying party provided that the transfer of the In accordance with its treasury policy, the amount and the present value of estimated assets also transfers the right to receive Group does not hold or issue derivatives for future cash flows, discounted at the cash flows from the financial asset.
Derivatives are classified effective interest rate.
The movement When the transfer does not result in the as current assets and current liabilities.
in the provision is recognised in the Group transferring the right to receive The derivatives are recognised initially at income statement.
cash flows from the financial asset but fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on it does result in the Group assuming a s Trade payables re-measurement to fair value is recognised corresponding obligation to pay cash flows immediately in the income statement, Trade payables are recognised initially at to another recipient, the financial asset unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow fair value and subsequently measured is derecognised.
hedge accounting in which case any gain or at amortised cost using the effective The Group derecognises financial loss is taken to equity in a cash flow hedge interest method.
liabilities only when its obligation is reserve via other comprehensive income.
discharged, is cancelled or expires.
t Provisions In order to qualify for hedge accounting, Financial assets classified as available-forthe Group is required to document in Provisions are recognised when: a the sale are the financial interest in property advance the relationship between the item Group has a present obligation as a result assets.
Derivative financial instruments being hedged and the hedging instrument.
of a past event: b it is probable that an not in hedge accounting relationships The Group is also required to demonstrate outflow of resources will be required to are classified as fair value through profit that the hedge will be highly effective on an settle the obligation: and c a reliable and loss.
This effectiveness testing is estimate can be made of the amount of re-performed at each period end to ensure q Borrowings the obligation.
that the hedge remains highly effective.
Borrowings are initially recognised at the u Dividends When a hedging instrument expires fair value of consideration received, net of or is sold, or when a hedge no longer Dividend distributions to the Companys transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are meets the criteria for hedge accounting, Shareholders are recognised as a liability subsequently stated at amortised cost.
any cumulative gain or loss existing in in the Group financial statements in the Any difference between the proceeds net equity at that time remains in equity and is period in which the dividends are either of transaction costs and the redemption recognised when the forecasted transaction approved by the Companys Shareholders value is recognised in the income statement is ultimately recognised in the income or are appropriately authorised and no over the period of the borrowings using the statement.
When a forecasted transaction longer at the discretion of the Group.
is no longer expected to occur, the Interim dividends are recognised Borrowings are classified as current cumulative gain or loss that was recognised on payment.
liabilities unless the Group has an in equity is immediately transferred to the unconditional right to defer settlement of income statement.
the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Fair value estimation The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted cash flow model using market information.
