152 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials Notes to the parent company financial statements 1.
The liability component had been deducted from the fair value Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits or losses at the current rate.
of the compound financial instrument a Basis of preparation as a whole and the residual element had Deferred tax is recognised in respect of The financial statements have been all timing differences that have originated been assigned to the equity component.
prepared on a going concern basis under The liability element was subsequently but not reversed at the balance sheet date, the historical cost convention, in accordance where transactions or events that result in measured at amortised cost using the with the Companies Act 2006 and effective interest rate method.
The nominal an obligation to pay more tax in the future applicable UK accounting standards.
or a right to pay less tax in the future have value of the bond was repaid in full in May The Company has taken the exemption 2014 with no option to convert taken.
occurred at the balance sheet date.
allowed under Section 408 of the Deferred tax is measured at the average Companies Act 2006 from the requirement g Share-based payments tax rates that are expected to apply in the to present its own profit and loss account.
Under the share-based compensation periods in which the timing differences The loss for the year was 20.5m arrangements set out in Note 1 k are expected to reverse, based on tax 2014: 4.8m.
These financial statements iii on page 92 and Note 32 on page rates and laws that have been enacted or present information about the Company 143, employees of Grainger Employees substantively enacted by the balance sheet as an individual undertaking and not about Limited have been awarded options date.
Deferred tax is measured on a nonits Group.
and conditional shares in the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of These share-based arrangements have the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party been treated as equity-settled in the e Own shares including treasury shares Transactions, from the requirement to consolidated financial statements.
In the Transactions of The Grainger disclose such transactions on the grounds Companys financial statements, the shareEmployee Benefit Trusts are included that it has presented its own consolidated based payment charge has been added to in the Companys financial statements.
the cost of investment in subsidiaries with The purchase of shares in the Company by acorresponding adjustment to equity.
each trust and any treasury shares bought b Accounting policies back by the Company are debited direct The Company financial statements have h Borrowings to equity.
been prepared under UK GAAP rather Borrowings are initially recognised at the than under IFRS that has been adopted for fair value of consideration received, net of f Convertible bond Group reporting.
The following accounting transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are The 112m, 3.625% convertible bond, due policies have been applied consistently subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Interest is in dealing with items that are considered Any difference between the proceeds net payable semi-annually.
Unless previously material in relation to the Companys of transaction costs and the redemption redeemed, converted, purchased or financial statements.
value is recognised in the income statement cancelled the bond was convertible at any over the period of the borrowings using the time up to 12 May 2014 into fully paid c Investments effective interest method.
up ordinary shares at a conversion price Investments in subsidiaries are carried at Borrowings are classified as current liabilities of 4.68.
The convertible bond was a historical cost less provision for impairment unless the Group has an unconditional compound financial instrument and the based upon an assessment of the net right to defer settlement of the liability for carrying amount had been allocated to recoverable amount of each investment.
at least 12 months after the statement of its equity and liability components in the To the extent that the assessment of financial position date.
The liability recoverable amount improves due to component had been determined by change in economic conditions, impairment measuring the fair value of a similar liability provisions are reversed.
that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded
