Strategic report Governance Financials 171 Glossary of terms PROPERTY FINANCIAL Interest cover Profit on ordinary activities before interest Assured periodic tenancy APT Cap and tax divided by net interest payable.
Market-rented tenancy arising from Financial instrument which, in return for Loan to value LTV succession from a regulated tenancy.
a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the Ratio of net debt to the market value Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Contingent tax Recurring Profit Market-rented tenancy where landlord The amount of tax that would be payable Profit before tax before valuation may obtain possession if appropriate notice should trading property be sold at the movements and non-recurring items.
market value shown in the market value balance sheet.
Operating Profit before Valuation Assured tenancy AT Movements OPBVM Market-rented tenancy where tenant has Dividend cover Operating profit before valuation the right to renew.
Earnings per share divided by dividends movements and non-recurring items.
Investment value IV or market value Net net net asset value triple net or Open market value of a property subject to Earnings per share EPS NNNAV relevant tenancy in place.
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders Gross NAV adjusted for deferred tax and divided by the weighted average number of those contingent tax liabilities which would Home reversion shares in issue in the year.
accrue if assets were sold at market value Rent free tenancy where tenant has the and for the fair value of long-term debt right of occupation until possession is Gearing and derivatives.
If the tenant The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to retains an equity interest in the property market net asset value.
Return on capital employed this is a partial life tenancy.
Operating profit after net valuation Goodwill movements on investment properties plus PRS On acquisition of a company, the difference the share of results from joint venture Private rented sector.
between the fair value of net assets associates plus the movement on the acquired and the fair value of the purchase uplift of trading stock to market value as Regulated tenancy price paid.
a percentage of opening gross capital Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent defined as investment property, financial Act.
Rent usually sub-market is set by the Gross net asset value NAV interest in property assets CHARM, rent officer and the tenant has security Shareholders funds adjusted for the investment in joint venture associates and of tenure.
market value of property assets held as trading stock at market value.
stock but before deduction for deferred Tenanted residential TR tax on property revaluations and before Return on shareholders equity Activity covering the acquisition, renting adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the out and subsequent sale usually on dividend per share relating to each year vacancy of residential units subject to a Hedging asapercentage of opening NNNAV.
The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
Swap Vacant possession value VP or VPV Financial instrument to protect against Open market value of a property free from interest rate movements.
172 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials GLOSSARY OF TERMS Continued Total shareholder return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on the basis of share price growth with dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the Groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
CORPORATE IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, mandatory for UK-listed companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
