FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION The accounts of the Company are prepared for the period up to the Friday closest to 31 March each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 53 weeks to 3 April 2015, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks to 28 March 2014.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, except where Financial Reporting Standards requires an alternative treatment in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The principal variation to the historical cost convention relates to share based payments.
A consolidated cash flow statement has been included in the Halfords Group plc consolidated accounts.
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash flow statements not to produce a cash flow statement.
EBTs are accounted for under UITF 32 and are consolidated on the basis that the parent has control, thus the assets and liabilities of the EBT are included on the Company balance sheet and shares held by the EBT in the Company are presented as a deduction from equity.
The Company has taken the available exemption not to provide disclosures required by FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans that are awarded to employees of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 44 FRS 20 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions the fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the subsidiary undertakings financial statements, which benefit from the employee services.
The Company has recognised the fair value of the share based payments as an increase to equity with a corresponding adjustment to investments.
Fair values are determined using appropriate option pricing models.
The total fair value recognised is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised as an adjustment to equity, with a corresponding adjustment to investments, over the remaining vesting period.
INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the original cost of the investments.
Provision is made against cost where, in the opinion of the directors, the value of the investments has been impaired.
DIVIDENDS Final dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Getting Into Gear 108 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015
