FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards 2.
Significant accounting policies Note $m $m The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations General Information Net cash from operating activities 36 366 425 have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the Investing activities any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the Purchases of property, plant and equipment 82 91 statements, however, may impact the accounting for future registered office is given on page 192.
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 31 1 transactions and arrangements.
Purchase of intangible assets 55 27 Basis of accounting Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements Non-Financial Assets Investment in financial and other non-current assets 5 are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Investment in available for sale investments 1 Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Continuation of Hedge Accounting Investments designated at fair value 20 Board IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in IFRIC 21 Levies Acquisition of business undertakings net of cash acquired 225 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and, Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Finance income 3 4 therefore, comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Financial Liabilities Acquisition related amounts held in escrow account 21 38 financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost IFRS 11 Amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Net cash used in investing activities 162 342 convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial Interests in Joint Operations Financing activities assets and liabilities.
Annual improvements to Increase decrease in collateralised and restricted cash 6 1 IFRSs: 2011 2013 The Groups previously published financial statements were also Increase in long-term financial debts 529 5 prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Repayment of long-term financial debts 91 121 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been Decrease increase in short-term borrowings 270 241 applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Dividends paid 64 55 effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US dollar as the majority of the Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries 2 1 Companys business is conducted in US dollars.
Interest paid 49 38 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Proceeds from issue of new shares 1 IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Going concern Proceeds from co-development and earnout payment agreement 17 amendments Depreciation and Amortisation The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial Net cash generated by financing activities 77 30 IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the amendments Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 281 113 Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 280 168 for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going Customers Foreign exchange translation movements 8 1 concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements IAS 19 amendments Defined Benefit Plans: Employees Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 553 280 page 61.
Contributions IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial Basis of consolidation Statements The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled amendments between an Investor and it Associate by the Company together the Group.
or Joint venture An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to Annual improvements to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the IFRSs: 2010 2012 ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012 2014 Cycle On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Any excess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling Amendments Consolidation Exemption interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the IFRS 16 Leases fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of deferred tax assets for goodwill.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated unrealised losses subsidiaries may initially be measured at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount initially Group in future periods, except that IFRS9 will impact both the recognised plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a interests having a deficit balance.
reasonable estimate of the effects of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed.
138 139 139 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Continued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete 2.
Significant accounting policies continued by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling during the measurement period see below, or additional assets interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and as of that date.
attributed to the equity shareholders of the parent.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and year are included in the consolidated income statement from the circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, to a maximum of one year.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies Investment in associates used in line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint on consolidation.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee revenue Business combinations but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in those fair Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment values can only affect the measurement of goodwill where they in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in occur during the measurement period and are as a result of excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any additional information becoming available about facts and long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other changes investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that are dealt with in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
This will usually the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made mean that changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised payments on behalf of the associate.
in the consolidated income statement.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of consolidated income statement.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of in the relevant associate.
consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets Intangible assets acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair An intangible asset is recognised if: value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the consideration, the excess is It is identifiable: recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
It is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group: and The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the The cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
140 140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 2.
Significant accounting policies continued by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, each of the Groups cash-generating units.
Cash-generating units Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result The probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The using reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling managements best estimate of the set of economic conditions during the measurement period see below, or additional assets unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashinterests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests that will exist over the useful life of the asset.
or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which Judgement is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the flow of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and the asset on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial as of that date.
the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset attributed to the equity shareholders of the parent.
recognition, giving greater weight to external evidence.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the reversed in a subsequent period.
Expenditures on research and development activities are charged to to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and year are included in the consolidated income statement from the the consolidated income statement, except only when the criteria circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, for recognising an internally generated intangible asset are met, to a maximum of one year.
included in the determination of the consolidated income statement as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory on disposal.
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies Investment in associates authority is considered probable.
used in line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group b Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated Also the Group engages with third party research and development commencing in the year in which the rights first generate sales influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint on consolidation.
companies to develop products on its behalf.
Payments made to note 14. venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the such third parties to fund research and fide The format of the 2015 financial and operating policy decisions of the investee revenue Business combinations c Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the tax reconciliation has been expanded to clarify the reconciling items.
but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date For consistency, we have re-classified the 2014 tax reconciliation method.
The consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in using the same methodology.
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, d Product related intangibles: Further details of the elements of the tax reconciliation are assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which described below: for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised i Product files and under-licenced products are assigned case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, indefinite useful lives which are reviewed for impairment Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity Profits taxed at different rates refer to non-UK profits taxed at the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability at least annually: and method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated statutory rates different from the UK statutory rate.
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the ii Under-licence agreements and product dossiers are Permanent differences relate principally to income which is not at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in those fair Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment amortised over their useful lives from the date of acquisition.
subject to tax due to statutory exemptions.
values can only affect the measurement of goodwill where they in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in Intangible assets recognised from development activities are occur during the measurement period and are as a result of excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any Temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised amortised over their useful economic life.
additional information becoming available about facts and long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net includes items on which it is not possible to book deferred tax and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other changes e Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that comprise mainly of the impact of creating utilising unrecognised are dealt with in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
This will usually life when the asset is available for use.
the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made temporary differences.
mean that changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised payments on behalf of the associate.
f In process research and development recognised on Prior year adjustments include amounts settled with tax authorities in the consolidated income statement.
acquisition: is amortised over the useful life from the date Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the which differ from the amounts previously provided.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups of acquisition.
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Development efforts are recognized as intangible assets if the previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is g Trade name: some trade names are assigned indefinite useful capitalization criteria for recognising an intangible asset are met, all value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are other payments are charged to the consolidated income statement.
and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of amortised where applicable, in the period from acquisition.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair a Goodwill: arising in a business combination is recognised as Foreign currencies value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration The individual financial statements of each Group company are that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in at their fair value at the acquisition date.
acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date fair consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
of each Group company are expressed in US dollars, the functional in the relevant associate.
consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC and the presentational If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets currency of the consolidated financial statements.
Intangible assets acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair An intangible asset is recognised if: consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the liabilities exceeds the cost of the consideration, the excess is It is identifiable: held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
It is probable that the expected future economic benefits that immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group: and The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at purchase gain.
are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the The cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
140 141 141 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Continued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued The Group also sells its products indirectly to independent 2.
Significant accounting policies continued pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they Exchange differences arising on retranslation of monetary assets purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income statement provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the in the period in which they arise.
agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
This credit is called a chargeback.
The provision for Hyperinflationary Economies chargebacks is based on historical sell-through levels by the Groups In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and estimated operations into US dollars, assets, liabilities, income statement wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales are made to large wholesale and equity accounts are translated at the rates prevailing on the customers, the Group continually monitors the reserve for balance sheet date.
Sudan was considered to be a hyperinflationary chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual economy during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The effect of chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
using the prevailing rate in Sudan for the year ended 31 December 2015 was not material.
Returns In certain countries the Group has a product return policy that On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas allows customers to return the product within a specified period operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
Provisions for returns balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, recognised, as a reduction of revenue.
if any, are classified as other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such cumulative translation The Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period experience, representing managements best estimate.
While such in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are history may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated The Group continually monitors the provisions for returns and at the closing rate.
makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns may differ from established reserves.
Revenue recognition Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the Rebates ultimate net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and therefore In certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities revenue cannot always be measured reliably at the point when the and under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
product is supplied or made available to external customers.
Products sold in the United States are covered by various programmes such as Medicaid under which products are sold Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement at a discount.
when goods or services are supplied or made available to external customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss The Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current have passed.
contractual terms and conditions as well as historical experience, changes to business practices and credit terms.
While such Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future rebate provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates liabilities.
The Group continually monitors the provisions for rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate and makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light differ from established reserves.
All rebates are recognised in the of contractual and historical information.
period in which the underlying sales are recognised as a reduction of If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue revenue.
recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Price adjustments Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the Chargebacks Groups products that customers have remaining in their inventories The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US the discretionary decisions made by Group management to reflect Group sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic competitive market conditions.
Amounts recorded for estimated distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms with direct 142 142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued The Group also sells its products indirectly to independent Government grants 2.
Significant accounting policies continued pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates customers, estimated declines in market prices and estimates of purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect treated as deferred income and released to the consolidated income prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
The Group regularly monitors these customers.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional customers to establish pricing for certain products.
Retirement benefit costs customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they Exchange differences arising on retranslation of monetary assets purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will Free goods Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income statement provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to stateFree goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, in the period in which they arise.
agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to reimbursement of agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer invoice price.
The provision for defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under or as a compensation for expired returned goods.
Free goods are Hyperinflationary Economies chargebacks is based on historical sell-through levels by the Groups the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution recognised at cost at the date at which the related revenue is In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and estimated retirement benefit scheme.
The costs associated with free goods are classified operations into US dollars, assets, liabilities, income statement wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales are made to large wholesale as cost of sales.
and equity accounts are translated at the rates prevailing on the Tax customers, the Group continually monitors the reserve for balance sheet date.
Sudan was considered to be a hyperinflationary Borrowing costs The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual economy during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The effect of Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction regulations prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
using the prevailing rate in Sudan for the year ended 31 December or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily Furthermore, the Group computes and records deferred tax assets 2015 was not material.
Returns take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use and liabilities according to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
In certain countries the Group has a product return policy that or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas The tax expense for the year represents the sum of the tax in current allows customers to return the product within a specified period assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the period, deferred tax arising in the period and prior year adjustments.
prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
Income and expense items are translated at the To the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are The tax incurred in the period is based on taxable profit for the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge of recognised, as a reduction of revenue.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in if any, are classified as other comprehensive income and transferred interest rate risk, the effective portion of the derivative is deferred in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of to the Groups translation reserve.
Such cumulative translation The Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical equity and released to the consolidated income statement when the income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period experience, representing managements best estimate.
While such qualifying asset impacts profit or loss.
To the extent that fixed rate it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged Groups tax incurred is calculated using tax rates that have been adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are history may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
in an effective fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the capitalised enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated The Group continually monitors the provisions for returns and borrowing costs reflect the hedged interest rate.
makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Investment income earned on the temporary investment of may differ from established reserves.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Revenue recognition specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the Rebates in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the ultimate net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and therefore In certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally revenue cannot always be measured reliably at the point when the and under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred product is supplied or made available to external customers.
Products sold in the United States are covered by various tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Dividend income programmes such as Medicaid under which products are sold taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement at a discount.
Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not when goods or services are supplied or made available to external rights to receive payment have been established.
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss The Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current from the initial recognition other than in a business combination have passed.
contractual terms and conditions as well as historical experience, Leasing of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither changes to business practices and credit terms.
While such Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to history may not always be an accurate indicator of future rebate Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary taxable provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group continually monitors the provisions for rebates differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straightand makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and differ from established reserves.
All rebates are recognised in the the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the of contractual and historical information.
receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also period in which the underlying sales are recognised as a reduction of temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue revenue.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Price adjustments apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities in the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the Deferred tax is charged to or credited in the consolidated income consolidated balance sheet.
Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Chargebacks directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with Groups products that customers have remaining in their inventories the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
Lease payments are The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex in equity.
at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US the discretionary decisions made by Group management to reflect obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Group sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic competitive market conditions.
Amounts recorded for estimated remaining balance of the liability.
distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms with direct 142 143 143 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Continued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued modification, as measured at the modification date.
Significant accounting policies continued based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as a replacement taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards assets and liabilities on a net basis.
are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each described above.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow of diluted earnings per share.
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Property, plant and equipment Share-based payment transactions Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render land at the following depreciation rates: services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled Buildings 2% to 4% transactions.
Vehicles 10% to 20% Share-based payments Machinery 5% to 33% IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be recognised Fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or A units of production method of depreciation is applied to rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other operations in their start up phase, as this reflects the expected equivalent assets.
pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised, a straight-line measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the method of depreciation is applied.
The fair value of the equity Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial model.
has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
The fair value of the management incentive plan is determined based on the share price as at the date of grant discounted by Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant dividend yield.
The fair value of the long-term incentive plan is and equipment are capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model, for long-term which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC incentive plan awards made from 2010, 50% of the award is substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised subject to a TSR performance condition which is valued by applying at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining 50% of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and the award is subject to financial metrics and valued by applying a depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and Black-Scholes model.
equipment over the shorter of the lease term of their useful life.
Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, impairment loss is taken to the consolidated income statement.
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised are given in Note 38.
In valuing share-based payments, no account impairment loss.
is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is vesting period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the that will eventually vest.
The Group revises its estimate of the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated number of equity instruments expected to vest except for failure to income statement.
satisfy a market vesting condition and the impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated Inventories income statement, such that the cumulative expense reflects Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost including all reserves.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are additional attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms its present location and condition.
The cost of own-manufactured had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised products comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the labour costs and any overheads that have been incurred in bringing 144 144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a sharestated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 2.
Significant accounting policies continued based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested value are recognised in other comprehensive income, with the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the inventories to their present location and condition.
In the on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same approximates to historical cost determined on a moving average substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as a replacement monetary assets, which are recognised directly in the consolidated taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net realisable value represents the are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each described above.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation the consolidated income statement.
The Groups investments in for inventories with net realisable value lower than cost or for slow probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow of diluted earnings per share.
unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market and the moving inventory.
fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, Property, plant and equipment Financial instruments less a provision for any impairment loss, which is taken to the Share-based payment transactions Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups consolidated income statement.
Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render Financial liabilities and equity land at the following depreciation rates: provisions of the instrument.
services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial Buildings 2% to 4% transactions.
Financial assets liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the Vehicles 10% to 20% All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date, contractual arrangement.
Share-based payments Machinery 5% to 33% where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be recognised Financial liabilities Fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially A units of production method of depreciation is applied to rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those operations in their start up phase, as this reflects the expected equivalent assets.
financial assets classified as at fair value through the consolidated The Group engage in co-development and earn out payment pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied income statement, which are initially measured at fair value.
The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is agreements with third parties where the Group earn milestone in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised, a straight-line measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the payments reflecting the achievement of R&D and commercialisation method of depreciation is applied.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: share-based payments are granted.
The fair value of the equity milestones.
Those payments are recognised as financial liabilities financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-toProjects under construction are not depreciated until construction settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial model.
once received and revalued at the end of each reporting period to maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
The fair value of the management incentive plan is determined represent the value of expected future cash outflows and the loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature based on the share price as at the date of grant discounted by difference is presented as finance cost Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time dividend yield.
Property, plant and equipment of initial recognition.
Other financial liabilities determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model, for long-term which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured incentive plan awards made from 2010, 50% of the award is Effective interest method substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised at fair value, net of transaction costs.
subject to a TSR performance condition which is valued by applying The effective interest method is a method of calculating the at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining 50% of amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised the award is subject to financial metrics and valued by applying a income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense Black-Scholes model.
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including equipment over the shorter of the lease term of their useful life.
recognised on an effective yield basis.
all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on The effective interest method is a method of calculating the the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest or discounts through the expected life of the debt instrument, impairment loss is taken to the consolidated income statement.
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised are given in Note 38.
In valuing share-based payments, no account rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through on initial recognition.
is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a to the market price of the shares of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a Derivative financial instruments corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is Loans and receivables Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups vesting period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The principal that will eventually vest.
The Group revises its estimate of the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and number of equity instruments expected to vest except for failure to income statement.
are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
The Group does satisfy a market vesting condition and the impact of the revision of measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated Inventories less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the speculative purposes.
income statement, such that the cumulative expense reflects Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost including all recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are additional attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to The Group designates certain hedging instruments, in respect of modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms Available for sale financial assets its present location and condition.
The cost of own-manufactured interest rate and foreign currency risk, as cash flow hedges.
Hedges had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that products comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are labour costs and any overheads that have been incurred in bringing as cash flow hedges.
