HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Continued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group The Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Note 31 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of instruments used for hedging purposes.
future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Cash flow hedge If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried income statement.
at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and as a revaluation decrease to the extent that it does not exceed the accumulated in equity are reclassified to the consolidated income previous revaluation surplus, and any excess is recognised in the statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in consolidated income statement.
the consolidated income statement, in the same line of the income Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying statement as the recognised hedged item.
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is as a revaluation increase.
recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptional Items Cash and cash equivalents The Group presents core earnings by making adjustments for Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with costs and profits which management believes to be exceptional original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an in nature by virtue of their size or incidence or have a distortive insignificant risk of changes in value.
effect on current year earnings.
Such items would include costs associated with business combinations, one-off gains and losses Equity instruments on disposal of businesses, assets, finance costs on co-development Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds and earnout agreement and similar items of a non-recurring received, net of direct issue costs.
nature together with reorganisation costs and similar charges and by adding back impairment of goodwill and amortisation and Provisions impairment of intangible assets arising on business combinations, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation net of any tax impact.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are Impairment of property, plant and equipment and described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, intangible assets excluding goodwill estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical determine whether there is any indication that those assets have experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
If any such indication exists, the Actual results may differ from these estimates.
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not 146 146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the to employment, product liability and commercial disputes.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating For current matters see note 37.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents of estimation uncertainty continued unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Taxation indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in In common with most international organisations, the Group may whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Furthermore, at the the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only be subject to audit from revenue authorities from time to time.
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group The Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash revision affects both current and future periods.
estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount provides for its best estimate of the liability.
These estimates take The Groups Directors believe that the following accounting policies rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant Note 31 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative that involve Directors judgements and estimates are the most critical money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of external advice, are inherently judgemental and could change instruments used for hedging purposes.
to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
substantially over time as new facts emerge and each dispute Cash flow hedge progresses.
Hikma continues to invest in its financial systems to Revenue recognition If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives ensure the quality of its the Group financial data reduces the risk The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised of an adverse revenue authority audit.
Furthermore, the Group make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Where open issues note 2 which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried income statement.
exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
as a revaluation decrease to the extent that it does not exceed the negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, accumulated in equity are reclassified to the consolidated income The Deferred revenue in respect of this is included in other current previous revaluation surplus, and any excess is recognised in the litigation proceedings.
statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
the consolidated income statement, in the same line of the income In addition to tax audits, the Group faces other potential tax risks Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Accounts receivable and bad debts statement as the recognised hedged item.
that could affect the sustainability of the Groups effective tax rate.
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating The main risks are transfer pricing and the withdrawal of tax Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate exemptions.
Other risks the Group faces include a material change hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative to the statutory tax rates, from the OECDs base erosion and profit terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for factors related to the credit worthiness of a particular customer.
shifting initiatives and adjustments arising out of differences in accounting.
A reversal of an The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from interpretation of tax legislation.
The Group regularly takes income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to professional advice to ensure the risks mentioned above are the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic appropriately analysed and managed with any ultimate potential income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range liability being adequately provided.
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is as a revaluation increase.
from 30-90 days, in Europe 30-120 days, and in MENA 180-360 recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk The transfer pricing risk can arise from a difference in view over the Exceptional Items by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit pricing of cross-border, inter-company product sales and services Cash and cash equivalents The Group presents core earnings by making adjustments for and insurance.
The standard by which most authorities assess Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with costs and profits which management believes to be exceptional the transfer price is whether it is set at arms length.
An upward original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level in nature by virtue of their size or incidence or have a distortive adjustment by the tax authority of one territory will not necessary insignificant risk of changes in value.
of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are effect on current year earnings.
Such items would include costs result in the downward adjustment by the other territory, leading made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer associated with business combinations, one-off gains and losses to a potentially increased tax cost through a mismatch of tax Equity instruments probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors on disposal of businesses, assets, finance costs on co-development deductions and taxable income, as well as a potential increase Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds including specific customer issues and industry, economic and and earnout agreement and similar items of a non-recurring arising out of a rate arbitrage.
The Group has considered these risks received, net of direct issue costs.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
nature together with reorganisation costs and similar charges in detail and has provided for potential tax adjustments so does not and by adding back impairment of goodwill and amortisation and Provisions believe that any adjustment will materially impact the effective tax Goodwill and intangible assets impairment of intangible assets arising on business combinations, rate going forward.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation The critical areas of judgement in relation to goodwill and intangible net of any tax impact.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that assets are the useful economic lives of the product-related The Group benefits from a tax exemption in Jordan arising partly an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources intangibles, the growth rates used in the impairment tests from the WTO approved Export Exemption that will be in force a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
and the discount rates used to determine net present values.
The Group does not believe that the of estimation uncertainty impact of the future withdrawal of this exemption will materially In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Contingent liabilities impact the Groups tax rate in light of the alternative options described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, intangible assets excluding goodwill The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and available under existing Jordanian domestic rules.
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by regulatory of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the FDA and determine whether there is any indication that those assets have experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
the US Department of Justice.
As a result, the Group is subject to suffered an impairment loss.
certain investigations by governmental agencies as well as other recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the various legal proceedings considered typical to its business relating extent of the impairment loss if any.
