FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards 2.
Significant accounting policies Note $m $m The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations General Information Net cash from operating activities 36 366 425 have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the Investing activities any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the Purchases of property, plant and equipment 82 91 statements, however, may impact the accounting for future registered office is given on page 192.
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 31 1 transactions and arrangements.
Purchase of intangible assets 55 27 Basis of accounting Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements Non-Financial Assets Investment in financial and other non-current assets 5 are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Investment in available for sale investments 1 Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Continuation of Hedge Accounting Investments designated at fair value 20 Board IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in IFRIC 21 Levies Acquisition of business undertakings net of cash acquired 225 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and, Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Finance income 3 4 therefore, comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Financial Liabilities Acquisition related amounts held in escrow account 21 38 financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost IFRS 11 Amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Net cash used in investing activities 162 342 convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial Interests in Joint Operations Financing activities assets and liabilities.
Annual improvements to Increase decrease in collateralised and restricted cash 6 1 IFRSs: 2011 2013 The Groups previously published financial statements were also Increase in long-term financial debts 529 5 prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Repayment of long-term financial debts 91 121 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been Decrease increase in short-term borrowings 270 241 applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Dividends paid 64 55 effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US dollar as the majority of the Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries 2 1 Companys business is conducted in US dollars.
Interest paid 49 38 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Proceeds from issue of new shares 1 IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Going concern Proceeds from co-development and earnout payment agreement 17 amendments Depreciation and Amortisation The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial Net cash generated by financing activities 77 30 IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the amendments Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 281 113 Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 280 168 for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going Customers Foreign exchange translation movements 8 1 concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements IAS 19 amendments Defined Benefit Plans: Employees Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 553 280 page 61.
Contributions IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial Basis of consolidation Statements The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled amendments between an Investor and it Associate by the Company together the Group.
or Joint venture An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to Annual improvements to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the IFRSs: 2010 2012 ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012 2014 Cycle On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Any excess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling Amendments Consolidation Exemption interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the IFRS 16 Leases fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of deferred tax assets for goodwill.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated unrealised losses subsidiaries may initially be measured at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount initially Group in future periods, except that IFRS9 will impact both the recognised plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a interests having a deficit balance.
reasonable estimate of the effects of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed.
