Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of goodwill and acquisition intangible assets In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors The annual impairment assessment in respect of goodwill and acquisition intangibles are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts requires estimates of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell of cash-generating units of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates to which goodwill and acquisition intangibles have been allocated.
As a result, estimates of and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are future cash flows are required, together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
determining the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill is 236.6m 2014: 246.3m.
The carrying value of acquisition intangibles is 70.9m 2014: 87.3m.
Following The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to the annual impairment review, no impairment charge has been recorded against goodwill or accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision acquisition intangibles.
affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
As set out in note 14, changes in respect of commercial outcomes around sales volumes, prices, margins and discount rates can impact the recoverable value.
Management do not believe that Revenue recognition any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions would produce an impairment in the An appropriate proportion of revenue, sufficient to cover future costs and margin, is deferred forthcoming year.
to future periods when the Group has obligations extending to future periods.
As a result, judgement is required in assessing the extent and associated costs of fulfilling those future obligations.
The Group uses historical experience and forecast activity levels in determining the 4.
Revenue appropriate amount of revenue to recognise in the current period and how much to defer to An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: future periods.
2015 2014 m m An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the economic Provision of services 584.2 568.3 benefits which will flow to the Group such as policy cancellations.
To the extent that Investment income note 9 0.2 0.5 economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that revenue is not 584.4 568.8 recognised.
The Group uses historical experience in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise.
Valuation of acquisition intangible assets Acquisitions may result in acquired access rights and acquired customer databases being recognised as intangible assets.
These are valued using the excess earnings method.
In applying this methodology certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash flows.
