Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule determining his or her own remuneration.
8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The annual report on The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Members Advisers Ian Chippendale Chairman and member until 31 March 2015 During the year New Bridge Street NBS, a firm of independent remuneration consultants, Stella David Chairman from 1 April 2015 served as advisers to the Committee.
The Company also instructed NBS to advise it on a limited JM Barry Gibson number of remuneration matters concerning individuals below the Executive Committee during Mark Morris the year.
Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, NBS has no other connections with Ben Mingay joined the Committee on 1 April 2015 the Company.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, the ultimate parent company of which is Aon plc.
Aon Benfield another Aon company provided underwriting advice and services All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that the to the Company during the year and Aon UK Ltd is now the Groups insurance broker.
The Company Chairman, Barry Gibson, should remain a member of the Committee taking account Remuneration Committee is comfortable that this does not present a conflict of interest as Aon of the fact that he was considered to be independent on appointment and also that, as a Benfield, Aon UK and NBS operate entirely independently of one another.
The fees paid to NBS former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, his knowledge of the development of the during the year for services to the Committee were 56,000. remuneration policy and practices at HomeServe is invaluable.
He takes no part in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The Committee has also received assistance from Richard Harpin, Group Chief Executive, Emma Thomas, Group Legal and HR Director and Anna Maughan, Company Secretary, all of whom Responsibilities attended meetings of the Committee as required.
No Executive took part in discussions in The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
determine the Groups overall remuneration strategy determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee approve the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements and oversee the operation of other share-based plans across the Group.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and it periodically monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee aims to develop and recommend remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Code and the guidelines issued by institutions such as the Investment Association, ISS and the NAPF.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available on the website.
