Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Opinion on financial statements of HomeServe plc In our opinion: Regulatory risk the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent As a home emergency and repair services For each of the Groups four main components we have Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: provider, the Group operates within a regulated assessed the design and implementation of managements marketplace.
Each component is subject to its controls in place to monitor and respond to regulatory risks the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with own local country regulatory regime, resulting at a local level.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: in varying degrees of regulatory complexity and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with As part of our assessment we have held discussions oversight.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of with senior individuals in the risk, compliance and legal Remediation activities in relation to the Financial functions of the Group as well as considering the frequency the Companies Act 2006: and Conduct Authority FCA investigation and of reporting of regulatory risk to the Group Audit and Risk the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the fine into the UK businesses past practices are Committee.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS substantially complete.
However, the Group is Regulation.
Where available, we have reviewed any regulatory required to ensure that its sales and marketing, correspondence between the component and local controls and governance and complaints The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Company regulator.
handling processes are structured in a manner statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group cash which is compliant with the local countries In the UK we have spoken directly with the FCAs supervisory flow statement, the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and the related regulatory regimes.
To the extent this is not team to obtain an independent view of the relationship with notes 1 to 54.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the case, the Group may be exposed to further the FCA, as well as any immediate concerns that the FCA regulatory censure.
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent may have with the UK business.
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Further details of the regulatory risk are Act 2006. discussed in the Principal risks and uncertainties section of the Strategic report.
Going concern Carrying value of goodwill and intangible As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 35 that the assets Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: The carrying value of goodwill and intangible We challenged managements assessment of whether we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the assets is 403.1m 2014: 333.6m.
there are any impairment indicators by considering the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and performance of each cash generating unit, as well as any The Groups assessment of the carrying value of notable business developments during the year.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the goodwill and intangible assets is a judgemental Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
process which requires estimates concerning We challenged managements key assumptions relating to the future cash flows of each cash generating the estimated future cash flows, growth rates, selling prices, However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a unit and associated discount rates, growth direct costs and the discount rates applied to each cash guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
rates, selling prices and direct costs based generating unit.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast on managements view of future business cash flows with reference to historical trading performance, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement prospects.
assessing the Groups ability to accurately forecast business The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest performance, consideration of future prospects of the effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of There is a risk that the management information business and benchmarking assumptions such as the the engagement team.
used to make these judgements is either growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic incomplete or inaccurate, resulting in financial and market data.
budgets and plans not appropriately predicting actual future cash flows.
We have assessed the appropriateness of new costs capitalised by the Group during the year by considering Further detail on the key judgements involved whether the costs have met the recognition criteria of IAS 38: is set out in the critical accounting judgements Intangible Assets.
and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 3 to the financial statements.
