Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Pensions Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors currently participate in one of two pension schemes with benefits limited It is the Boards policy that Executive Directors and certain members of the Companys senior to their notional capped salary.
An unapproved pension contribution is paid in respect of basic management build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Executive salary above the cap.
Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to their annual basic salary.
The Water Companies A funded, HMRC approved occupational defined benefit scheme If the holding guideline has not been fulfilled at the point of exercise of any option or the vesting Pension Scheme of any other long-term incentive award, the Director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement is achieved.
Details of the current shareholdings Members Richard Harpin of the Executive Directors are provided later in this report.
Main features pension at normal retirement age of one-half of final pensionable salary and a tax free lump sum of one and a Changes to operation in FY16 half times final pensionable salary on completion of 40 years The shareholding guideline will be increased to two times annual basic salary.
service at an accrual rate of 80ths plus 3 80ths cash life assurance of five times basic salary How employees pay is taken into account pension payable in the event of ill health: and spouses The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for pension on death employees across the Group as a whole.
Our ability to meet our growth expectations and normal retirement at age 60. compete effectively is dependent on the skills, experience and performance of all of our Special features Non-contributory employees.
Our employment policies, remuneration and benefit packages for employees are The HomeServe A funded, HMRC approved occupational defined regularly reviewed.
Money Plan contribution scheme Members Martin Bennett There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Johnathan Ford Directors and senior management team compared to other employees reflecting their differing responsibilities, with the principal difference being the increased emphasis on performance Main features employer contributions of 20% related pay for the more senior executives within the organisation.
However, there are many life assurance of five times basic salary common themes.
For example, the structure of the annual bonus, with the focus on customer, permanent health insurance commercial and personal performance, is the same for employees at management grade and spouses pension on death above albeit with a higher weighting on personal performance at less senior grades.
Unapproved pension A notional earnings cap restricts the benefits provided to Employee share ownership is encouraged and facilitated through extending participation provision members of the Water Companies Pension Scheme and the in the LTIP to other senior leaders within the business and all UK based employees are able HomeServe Money Plan.
An unapproved pension contribution, to participate in the Save as You Earn Scheme subject to meeting the minimum service equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the requirement.
notional cap is paid annually.
Executives may choose to have this amount paid directly into their pension or may receive it as cash.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on directors pay, the Committee does take into consideration the pay and employment conditions of all employees The notional cap is indexed in line with earnings inflation.
For FY15 when setting the policy for directors remuneration.
In terms of comparison metrics, the the notional cap was 130,967.
Committee takes into account the average level of salary increase being budgeted for the UK workforce when reviewing the salary levels of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is also mindful of any changes to the pay and benefit conditions for employees more generally when considering the policy for directors pay.
