Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 65 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors information on the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may applicable law and regulations.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the directors consider for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the and strategy.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 34 view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and and prudent: the management report contained in the strategic report and the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union directors report includes a fair review of the development and have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed performance of the business and the position of the Group, together and explained in the financial statements: and with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the Group financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue By order of the Board in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records John Walden Richard Ashton that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Chief Executive Finance Director disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the 29 April 2015 29 April 2015 Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
