Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Group cash flow statement Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2015 2015 2014 1.
General information Notes m m HomeServe plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
Net cash inflow from operating activities 33 67.4 67.0 The address of the registered office is Cable Drive, Walsall, WS2 7BN.
Investing activities These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the Interest received 0.3 0.5 primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in Purchases of intangible assets 46.9 30.2 accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 5.9 3.4 Acquisition of available for sale investments 17 4.8 2.
Significant accounting policies Net cash outflow on acquisitions 32 1.1 2.4 Basis of accounting Net cash used in investing activities 58.4 35.5 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain Financing activities financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as Dividends paid 12 36.9 36.7 explained in note 39 below.
Repayment of finance leases 0.3 0.4 Issue of shares from the employee benefit trust 1.9 0.7 Adoption of new or revised standards and accounting policies Proceeds on issue of share capital 25 1.9 0.4 The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year: Increase in bank and other loans 20 3.4 13.1 Net cash used in financing activities 30.0 22.9 Amendments to IAS32 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Amendments to IAS36 Impairment disclosures Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 21.0 8.6 Amendments to IAS39 Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 96.2 88.6 The adoption of these standards has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 1.0 these financial statements Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 74.7 96.2 Standards in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective not all of which have been endorsed by the EU : IFRS9 Financial Instruments IFRS14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Amendment to IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IFRIC21 Levies Amendments to IAS27 Equity method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS16 & IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS16 & IAS38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations Improvements to IFRSs 2013 Improvements to IFRSs 2014 112 | HomeServe HomeServe | 113 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued they qualify as measurement period see below adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in Standards in issue but not yet effective continued the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in The implementation of IFRS9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified Instruments.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards and as equity are not recognised.
Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting in the future years.
period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items Going concern for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new performance and position are set out in the strategic report.
information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts, cash flows and established that the businesses are progressing in line with their expectations for growth in 2016.
As a result the The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they is subject to a maximum of one year.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Any adjustments to contingent consideration for acquisitions made prior to 31 March 2010 The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below: which result in an adjustment to goodwill continue to be accounted for under IFRS3 2004 and IAS27 2005.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and Goodwill entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised at cost as an asset at the date the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the is exposed or has rights to variable return from its involvement with the investee, and has the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets ability to use its power to affect its returns.
acquired and the liabilities assumed.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if there is at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of an indication that it may be impaired.
during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed Business combinations in a subsequent period.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed in exchange for control of the acquiree.
of the profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
114 | HomeServe HomeServe | 115 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Marketing expenses Revenue recognition Costs incurred in respect of marketing activity, including for example, direct mail and inbound Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents outbound telephone costs, which is undertaken to acquire or renew a policy, are charged to the amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of income statement in the period in which the related marketing campaign is performed.
discounts, VAT, Insurance Premium Tax and other sales related taxes.
Marketing expenses also include payments made to Affinity Partners in recognition of their Revenue recorded by the Group includes commissions receivable in the Groups role as an support for the Groups selling and policy renewal activities.
The terms of their support and intermediary in the policy sale and administration process.
Any third-party costs incurred on related payments are included in contractual agreements with each Affinity Partner.
Amounts behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement, or where incurred upon the sale and renewal of an individual policy by the Group, referred to as Affinity the Groups role is only as an intermediary in the cash collection process, are not included in Partner Commissions, are recognised as an operating expense when individual policies incept revenue.
Consequently, on the sale of a policy, gross revenue consists of only a component of or renew.
Commissions are payable to Affinity Partners only when the Group has collected the the overall policy price, representing the commission receivable for the marketing and sale premium due on behalf of the third party underwriter from the policy holder.
of the policy, stated net of sales related taxes.
Leasing Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate arrangements that can Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially be provided to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an optional extra, revenue all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
Accordingly, revenue is operating leases.
recognised on the sale of a policy except where an obligation exists to provide future services, Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, typically claims handling and policy administration services.
In these situations, a proportion if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of revenue, sufficient to cover future claims handling costs and margin, is deferred over the life of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance of the policy, as deferred income.
The assessment of future claims handling takes account of lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction the expected numbers of claims and the estimated cost of handling those claims, which are of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of validated through experience of historical actual costs.
The deferred revenue is released over the expected profile of anticipated claims over the policy Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over period.
The deferral also includes a profit element to recognise the performance of these the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an services in the future.
operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue on sales of franchises is recognised when the obligations to the franchisee are Foreign currencies complete.
Revenue on the sale of new franchise licences is recognised upon the signing of the Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange related franchise agreement.
These franchise fees are non-refundable and primarily relate to prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and initial set-up services.
liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign Repair revenue relates to repairs undertaken on behalf of underwriters subject to separate currency are not retranslated.
Such revenue is recognised on completion of the repair.
Annual service revenue is recognised on completion of the annual service.
Ongoing service revenue is recognised in equal instalments over the life of the policy.
116 | HomeServe HomeServe | 117 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Any retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value Foreign currencies continued of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced Borrowings in foreign currencies are treated as monetary liabilities and are translated at the by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange rate movements on foreign currency service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to borrowings are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Foreign currency borrowings the plan.
are not treated as hedges of net investments.
Taxation On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated Any tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current at the average exchange rates for the year unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Exchange movements, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation sheet date.
Such cumulative exchange movements are recognised as income or expense in the year in which the operation is disposed of.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary Borrowing costs differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Operating profit Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments Operating profit is stated after charging all operating costs, but before investment income and in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference finance costs.
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Retirement benefit costs The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow they fall due.
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses and the return on scheme assets excluding interest statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case are recognised in full in the year in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Remeasurement recorded in the statement of comprehensive income is not recycled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities and is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits on a net basis.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
118 | HomeServe HomeServe | 119 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Trademarks represent costs incurred to legally protect the established brand names of the Property, plant and equipment Group.
Trademarks are stated at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their useful Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
economic lives, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, over their estimated Customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: policies that have been created by our Affinity Partners through their own sales and marketing activity and subsequently purchased by the Group.
Such customer databases are recorded at Buildings 25 50 years their fair value based on the amount paid to the Affinity Partner.
These customer databases Furniture, fixtures and equipment 5 7 years are amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining term of the Affinity Partner marketing Computer equipment 3 7 years agreement, which are in the range of 3 10 years.
Motor vehicles 3 years with 25% residual value Computer software and the related licences are stated at cost and amortised on a straight line Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis over their useful lives of 3 7 years.
basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Investments Intangible assets At each balance sheet date the Group conducts a fair value assessment of its investments, Acquisition intangible assets the difference between the fair value and carrying value is charged to the Statement of Acquired access rights relate to the contractual agreements entered into with the former Comprehensive Income.
owners of businesses acquired as part of business combinations.
These agreements set out the contractual terms of the Affinity Partnership and provide the contractual framework Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill within which the Group markets, sells and renews policies with the individual customers of the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and Affinity Partner.
Acquired access rights are recorded at fair value by using the estimated and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the relationship.
Acquired access rights an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are in the range of estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does 3 15 years.
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Acquired customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer policies that exist at the date of acquisition and are acquired by the Group as part Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing of a business combination.
Acquired customer databases are recorded at fair value using the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a preestimated and discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the future renewal of the tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the portfolio of acquired policies over their estimated residual life.
Acquired customer databases are risks specific to the assets for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are in the range of 3 If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its 15 years.
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its Other intangible assets recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Access rights arise from the contractual agreements with Affinity Partners which provide the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or contractual framework within which the Group markets, sells and renews policies with the cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that individual customers of the Affinity Partner.
Access rights are valued at the discounted present the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been value of the contractually committed payments, where such payments are not related to the determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in success or otherwise of activity under the contractual agreements and are amortised on a prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
straight-line basis over the length of the contractual agreement, up to a maximum of 20 years.
120 | HomeServe HomeServe | 121 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Trade payables Inventories Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct Equity instruments materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is measured on issue costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation Financial instruments and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the are classified either at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or loans and receivables.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the at the time of initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received Trade receivables and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at amortised cost as reduced by Share-based payments appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
EquityCash and cash equivalents settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through Save As You Earn schemes.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation models contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a depending on the type of scheme.
residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Own shares reserve Borrowings Shares of the parent Company that are purchased by the HomeServe plc Employee Benefit Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are stated at amortised cost and are recorded at the Trust are held at cost and shown as a deduction in equity.
Cost comprises consideration paid, proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on including directly attributable costs.
The shares are held to satisfy obligations under the Groups settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using equity settled share based payment schemes.
the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the Exceptional items extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence and which the Directors consider should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
