OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 91 Basis of consolidation and acquisition accounting Notes to the The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Ibstock plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting financial statements period as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies the Group no longer retains control.
Details of all the subsidiaries of the Authorisation of financial statements Group are given in Note 28.
The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc, which has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, for the The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for period ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue business combinations by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 March measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments 2016.
The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair Ibstock plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in England value at acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred whose shares are publicly traded.
over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the consideration transferred is less than Basis of preparation the fair value of the net assets acquired, negative goodwill arises The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc for the and is recognised directly in the income statement.
period from 28 November 2014 to 31 December 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting An estimation of the fair value is made for contingent consideration Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as in accordance with IFRS 3 at the time of a business combination.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Where there is a contractual obligation to settle the liability in cash Act 2006. based on events outside the Companys control this is accounted for as a financial liability and subsequent changes to the fair value Ibstock plc was incorporated on 3 September 2015 to serve as of contingent consideration recognised as a financial liability are a holding company for the purposes of listing on the London recognised in the income statement.
Ibstock plc was admitted to public trading on consideration is accounted for as a credit to equity within other 27October 2015. reserves and is not subsequently adjusted.
On 26 February 2015, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Figgs Topco Acquisition expenses of 9,392,000 have been taken to the Limited acquired all of the shares of Ibstock Group Limited and consolidated income statement during the year and recognised Glen-Gery Corporation from CRH plc.
Ibstock plc acquired Figgs in .
Topco Limited and its subsidiaries in a share for share exchange prior to admission to public trading and as a result replaced Figgs Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Topco as the ultimate holding company in the group structure: this its future development, performance and position are set out in the resulted in no ultimate change in control of the acquired companies.
business review on pages 36 to 37.
The financial position of the Under predecessor accounting, the results of Ibstock plc have been company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are adjusted as if the entity had always been merged with Figgs Topco described in the Directors Report on pages 79 to 80.
In addition, Note Limited, which was the holding company of other subsidiaries prior 21 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, to the introduction of Ibstock plc into the group structure as the policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk ultimate holding company.
The consolidated financial statements management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging of Ibstock plc the Group therefore comprise the results of Figgs activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Topco Limited and its subsidiary companies from its incorporation on 28 November 2014.
This represents the first period of account The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and has following the incorporation of Ibstock plc, and as such no reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
As a result it believes comparative figures are presented.
its trading performance will demonstrate continued improvement in the coming periods, and that liquidity will remain strong.
Its subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has The Board has reviewed the latest forecasts of the Group and rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and considered the obligations of the financing arrangements.
Given has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the the continued strong liquidity of the Group, the Board has entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which concluded that the going concern basis of accounting of its control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from financial statements isappropriate.
the date that control ceases.
Therefore, the financial statements include the results of the operating companies which were In addition, see the Groups Viability Statement set out on page 35. acquired by Figgs Topco Limited on 26 February 2015 see Note24, from that date.
IFRS 1 First time adoption These consolidated financial statements for the year ended The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling 31December 2015, are the first set of financial statements the and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except Group has prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are European Union.
As Ibstock plc and its subsidiary Figgs Topco set out below.
Limited have not previously prepared financial statements, no transition exemptions or exceptions have been applied and no reconciliations are presented.
indd 91 12 04 2016 12:56 92 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Segment reporting Notes to the Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the financial statements internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker CODM, who is responsible for continued allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors of the Group.
The CODM reviews the key profit measure, Adjusted EBITDA disaggregated by the UK and US based on geographical location and the organisational structure of the Group.
No New standards, amendments and interpretations not aggregation of segments has been applied.
yet adopted A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Foreign currency translation interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after a Functional and presentation currency 1January 2015, and have not been applied in preparing these Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
None of these is expected to entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
of the Group, except the following set out below: The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the i. e. subsidiaries with a functional currency that is not Sterling are guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement translated into Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the of financial instruments, including impairment of financial assets and reporting date and their results are translated at the actual rates hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement prevailing at the date of the transactions or average rates, with a model and establishes three primary measurement categories for reasonable approximation and the effect of fair value adjustment on the assets and liabilities are treated as part of the assets and financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive liabilities of a foreign operation.
The currency translation differences income OCI and fair value through profit and loss P&L.
The basis are recorded in the currency translation reserve within other of classification depends on the entitys business model and the comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the currency contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes b Transactions and balances in fair value in OCI with no subsequent reclassification of cumulative Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional gains and losses to profit or loss.
There is now a new expected credit currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the one management actually use for risk management purposes.
income statement within net finance costs.
All other foreign exchange Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to gains and losses are presented in the income statement.
that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Early Borrowing costs adoption is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred, except for borrowing assessing the impact of IFRS 9. costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset that necessarily takes a substantial IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers deals with period of time to get ready for its intended use, in which case they are revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing information to users of financial statements about the nature, costs commences when expenditures for the asset and borrowing amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising costs are being incurred and the activities to prepare the asset for its from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised intended use are in progress.
Borrowing costs are capitalised up to when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the date when the project is completed and ready for its intended use.
the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 There were no borrowing costs capitalised during the period.
Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 Property, plant and equipment and earlier application is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at the cost to the Group The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15. less depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable costs.
IFRS 16 Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both Depreciation is provided on the cost of all other assets except parties to a contract, i. e. the customer lessee and the supplier assets in the course of construction and land, so as to write off the lessor.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability cost, less residual value, on a straight line basis over the expected reflecting future lease payments and a right of use asset for useful economic life of the assets concerned, as follows: virtually all lease contracts.
IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
A company can choose to apply IFRS 16 before that date Asset classification Useful life but only if it also applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Land Not depreciated Customers.
The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 16.
Freehold buildings 20 50 years Plant, machinery and equipment 5 40 years There are no other IFRSs, Annual improvements or IFRIC Mineral reserves A mortised on a usage basis interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
indd 92 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 93 Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for mineral Financial assets deposits with economic potential and is not capitalised.
Evaluation Classification expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: projects that have been identified as having economic potential and at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
in obtaining permissions to extract clay.
Capitalisation of evaluation The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial expenditure within Mineral reserves commences when there is a assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project of its financial assets at initial recognition.
is commercially viable, i. e, the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the Mineral reserves may be declared for an undeveloped project short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category Evaluation costs may continue to be capitalised during the period are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within between declaration of reserves and approval to extract clay as 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
further work is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than reviewed for impairment by management.
Mineral reserves are 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are classified amortised on a usage basis.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet balance sheet Notes 14 and 15, respectively.
date and revised where expectations are significantly different from previous estimates.
In such cases, the depreciation charge for Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on current and future periods is adjusted accordingly.
the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through carrying value may not be recoverable.
profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the Intangible assets investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group Separately acquired brands and non-contractual customer has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
relationships are shown at historical cost.
Brands and customer Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are subsequently carried accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
straight line method to allocate the cost of brands and customer relationships over their estimated useful lives as follows: Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise Asset classification Useful life sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
Brands 10 50 years If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as Customer relationships 10 20 years current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful interest method, less provision for impairment.
lives of three to five years.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount For further details see Note 11. reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention Impairment of non-financial assets to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation such as simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right must not be brands and non-contractual customer relationships and property, contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents includes assets fair value less costs of disposal and value-in-use.
For the cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows bank overdrafts if any.
In the consolidated balance sheets, bank cash-generating units.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that Inventories have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating present location and condition.
Raw materials, consumables and cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as goods for resale are recognised on an average cost basis, while non-current liabilities.
work in progress and finished goods are held at direct cost and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Net realisable Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
indd 93 12 04 2016 12:56 94 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Where defined benefit schemes have a surplus, the surplus is not Notes to the recognised if future economic benefits are not available to the entity financial statements in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a cash refund.
continued The current service cost of the defined benefit plan, recognised in the income statement in employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year, benefit changes curtailments and settlements.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
The net attributable transaction costs incurred.
All other costs are expensed interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net as incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of any difference between the fair value initially recognised and the planassets.
This cost is included in interest expense in the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the incomestatement.
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method takes into account estimations of future Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience cash flows associated with the instrument.
Management are adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged required to re-assess these estimates at each reporting date and or credited in other comprehensive income in the period in which where the expectations of the nature and timing of cash flows they arise.
change a one-off adjustment is required to alter the carrying value ofthe instrument in accordance with those new expectations.
A reimbursement asset has been recognised representing an indemnity receivable from a former parent undertaking which will Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has be directly contributed to the pension scheme.
A related liability an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least for any additional pension liabilities that may arise as a result of 12 months after the balance sheet date.
the equalisation of pension benefits has been recognised within post-employment benefit obligations see Note 19.
Finance cost on borrowings is treated as an expense in the income statement, with the exception of interest costs incurred on the For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to financing of major projects, which are capitalised within property, publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a plant and equipment.
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as Group recognises contributions payable to defined contribution plans transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some in exchange for employee services in employee benefit expense.
or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it Provisions is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that the period of the facility to which it relates.
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not An exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms recognised for future operating losses.
is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, a Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability thatan outflow will be required in settlement is determined by is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Employee benefits The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Pension obligations money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions The restoration provision is to fund future obligations at a number of if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees sites that the Group is associated with and where the Group has any the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior constructive obligation to restore once it has fully utilised the site.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease basis defined contribution plan.
and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash outflow.
The restructuring provision covers current and former Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one liability payable to their normal retirement date.
Other provisions relate or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
to provisions for sites used for landfill and for onerous contracts to cover the exposure that the Group has for both current property The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the current benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit market rents and also vacant properties.
All of these provisions are obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan discounted on an annual basis.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency inwhich the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
indd 94 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 95 Revenue recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable for deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition goods and services supplied by the Group, exclusive of local of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business sales tax and trade discounts and after eliminating sales within combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the Group.
All of revenue is attributable to the principal activities accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
of the Group being the manufacture and sale of concrete products, clay facing bricks and associated special shaped The amount of deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have and fabricated clay products.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, which is usually liabilities are not subject to discounting.
For bill and hold sales, in which delivery is delayed at the buyers request but the buyer takes title and A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is accepts billing, revenue is recognised when the buyer takes title, probable that future taxable profits will be available, against which provided: a it is probable that delivery will be made: b the item is the temporary difference can be utilised.
on hand, identified and ready for delivery to the buyer at the time the sale is recognised: c the buyer specifically acknowledges the Deferred tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary deferred delivery instructions: and d the usual payment terms differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates apply.
Revenue is not recognised when there is simply an intention and joint arrangements, except for deferred tax liabilities where the to acquire or manufacture the goods in time for delivery.
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Customer rebates reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions for rebates to customers are based upon the terms of individual contracts and are recorded in the same period as the Deferred tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary related sales as a deduction from revenue.
The Group estimates differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates the provision for customer rebates based on the terms of each and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can Other income be utilised.
Other income is attributable to rental income from properties, landfill and gas activity.
Other expenses represents associated expenses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally This is not deemed to be a principal activity of the Group.
enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities where these have been levied by the same tax authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within Research and development the Group where there is an intention to settle the balances on a Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, net basis.
except that development expenditure incurred on an individual project is carried forward when its future recoverability can Operating leases reasonably be regarded as assured.
Any expenditure carried Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of forward is amortised in line with the expected future sales from the ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating related project.
Research and development costs capitalised are leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any not material.
incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income Share capital statement, those material items of income and expense which, Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Mandatorily redeemable because of the nature and the expected infrequency of the events preference shares are classified as liabilities.
Incremental costs giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options shareholders to understand better elements of financial are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
performance in the financial period, so as to assess better trends in financial performance.
Further detail on exceptional items are Dividend distribution given within Note 4. Dividend distributions to Ibstock shareholders are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the The Directors believe that the adjusted EBITDA and earnings per dividends are approved in general meeting, or when paid in the share measures provide useful information for shareholders.
case of an interim dividend.
These measures are consistent with how the underlying business performance is measured internally.
The adjusted EBITDA is not a Share based payments recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from The adjustments made to profit are described within Note 4. employees as consideration for equity instruments for example options or shares of the Group.
The fair value of the employee Taxation services received in exchange for the grant of the equity Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and instruments is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except for be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income instruments granted: or directly in equity.
including any market performance conditions for example, an entitys share price : Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on the excluding the impact of any service and non-market taxable income or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
specified time period : and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for a bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts included specific period of time.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not IBSTOCK 23 Notes 1 to 9 DRF2.
indd 95 12 04 2016 12:56 96 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Provisions Notes to the Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or financial statements constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and continued the amount has been reliably estimated.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its Provisions are established by the Group based on the estimatesof the number of instruments that are expected to managements assessment of relevant information and advice vestbased on the non-market vesting conditions and service available at the time of preparing the consolidated financial conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original statements.
Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding events and are reviewed regularly.
Where outcomes differ from adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances managements expectations, differences from the amount employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes outcome is determined.
of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
The Groups provisions principally relate to obligations arising fromPP&E dilapidation and restorations, provisions for the For the equity-settled share based payment transactions, the fair Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, product warranties, value of the share instruments granted is derived from established landfill and onerous lease property provisions.
Further details option pricing models.
Further details on share based payments ofspecific estimates used in arriving at these provisions are are set out in Note 25. provided in Note 17.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates Business combinations The preparation of the financial statements requires management When the Group completes a business combination, the fair values to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect assets and contingent liabilities, are recognised at their fair value.
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
In estimating fair value, particularly in relation to identifiable intangible assets, management is required to estimate Estimates the useful economic life of each asset and the future cash flows Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed by expected to arise from each asset and to apply a suitable discount management on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the rate.
The carrying value of intangible assets is disclosed in Note 11. period in which the estimates are revised and in any future period affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material Additionally, management has made judgements and estimations adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within in relation to the expected ultimate payments which will occur, and the next financial year are as follows: their timings, in respect of contingent consideration and liabilities arising on the business combination in the period.
Contingent Residual values and asset lives consideration and related assumptions are disclosed in Note 24.
Management has applied judgement in selecting the depreciation rates applied to depreciate property, plant and equipment, to Mineral reserves depreciate tangible fixed assets over their useful economic lives.
Upon acquisition by Figgs Topco Limited on 26 February 2015, Following the acquisition of the operating companies, property, mineral reserves were recorded at their fair value.
The plant and equipment values were recognised at fair value and determination of the mineral reserves requires significant useful economic lives assessed at that date.
These were derived judgements and estimates to be applied, and these are reviewed from the operation of comparable equipment.
The carrying value regularly and updated.
ofproperty, plant and equipment, and a table showing the useful economic lives of these assets is disclosed in Note 12.
Factors such as the availability of geological and extraction data, material performance and both the assessment of compliance with, Taxation and likelihood of extensions to, planning permissions, all impact The Group is subject to tax in the different tax jurisdictions in which upon the determination of the Groups estimates of its mineral itoperates.
During the ordinary course of business, there are reserves.
Managements valuations are based on the expected transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination future usage of reserves using production data, information from may be uncertain.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge in-house geologists and input from external consultants.
therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
The Groups tax liabilities are based on estimates of whether additional Mineral reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment taxes will be due and tax assets are recognised on the basis of ofthe recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the probable future recoverability.
This requires management to exercise consolidated financial statements.
Estimates of mineral reserves judgement based on their interpretation of country specific tax laws are also used to calculate depreciation charges for the Groups and the likelihood of settlement of tax liabilities or recoverability of tax mineral reserves.
The impact of changes in minerals is dealt with assets.
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the estimates prospectively by amortising the remaining carrying value of the made, tax adjustments may be required which could have a material asset over the expected future production.
impact on the Groups total tax charge and profit for the period in which such a determination is made.
indd 96 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 97 Judgements Defined benefit pension schemes Judgements are made by management in the process of applying The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension schemes the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant requires management to make judgements as to the nature of effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, Impairment of intangible and non-current assets management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions Determining whether intangible and other non-current assets about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future areimpaired requires judgement and estimation.
The Group remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration periodically reviews intangible and non-current assets, for possible costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, life expectancy and impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in expected remaining periods of service of employees.
managements judgement, that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Such indicating events would include In relation to the Groups post-employment obligations in the US, asignificant planned restructuring, a major change in market management make estimations relating to employee numbers, conditions or technology, expectations of future operating inflation rates, discount rates and future contribution rates.
losses, or negative cash flows.
These assumptions are based on the environment in the respective The Group did not record any impairment charges during the country.
The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which period ended 31 December 2015 as managements judgement, would affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences based on a rigorous assessment, was that there were no between these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect indicators of impairment.
future net income and net assets.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external Non-GAAP items advisers, such as actuaries.
These assumptions are subject to Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements periodic review.
where management believes it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
In the current period, management made a specific judgement in relation to the application of International Financial Reporting The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Interpretations Committee guidance IFRIC 14 and its applicability incomestatement, those material items of income and expense to Ibstock plc.
This judgement concerns the Groups ability to which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the recognise the actuarial surplus on the UK defined benefit pension events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow scheme.
In applying this interpretation, the Group restricted its shareholders to understand better elements of financial pension surplus as at 31 December 2015 from 8,368,000 to performance in the period, so as to facilitate comparison with 331,000 in recognition of the minimum funding requirements future periods and to assess trends in financial performance.
Management has recognised the Barber equalisation liability of 9,000,000 together with a separate Management has considered the materiality, infrequency and reimbursement asset from CRH plc of 9,000,000, which is held nature of the cost associated with the Groups Initial Public Offering within trade and other receivables.
in October 2015 against the requirements and guidance provided by IAS 1, Group accounting policies and recent press releases Additionally, management has exercised judgement in the from the FRC.
Management judged that classifying the scale and treatment of the multi-employer US pension as a defined nature of the transaction and the related expense as an exceptional contribution scheme during the current year.
item in the income statement provides the best guidance as to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the Note 19 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis results of the Group in accordance with the policy above.
of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Exceptional items are disclosed in Note 4.
Deal costs Borrowing costs Deal costs of 5.0m were offset against the share premium During the period ended 31 December 2015, the Group of 99.5m created on the issue of shares during the period.
Management has exercised judgement in assessing the allocation raisedsignificant funds during refinancing the Groups debt.
of deal costs incurred between equity and the current period In establishing borrowing costs, using the effective interest rate income statement.
method, management is required to exercise judgement over theperiod in which the debt will be utilised and repaid.
Currently, management considers that debt will be held to maturity and transaction costs of raising debt are included in the effective interest rate over those periods.
The amount of transaction costsincluded in debt are disclosed in Note 7.
indd 97 12 04 2016 12:56 98 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Segment reporting As explained in Note 1, the management team considers the reportable segments to be the UK and the US.
The key Group performance measure is Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed below, which is profit before net finance cost, tax, exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation and other non-underlying items.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
Period ended 31 December 2015 Negative goodwill on UK US acquisition Total 000 000 000 000 Total revenue from external customers 287,796 70,535 358,331 EBITDA before exceptional items 91,167 11,132 102,299 Acquisition costs: Transaction costs 9,392 9,392 Acquisition costs: Retention and compensation payments 623 363 986 IPO costs: Transaction costs 10,276 2,221 12,497 IPO costs: Compensation payments 1,263 1,263 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,389 14 1,403 Exceptional cost of sales 13,491 2,486 15,977 EBITDA after exceptional items 54,733 6,048 60,781 Depreciation and amortisation pre fair value uplift 10,796 3,056 13,852 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 7,306 166 7,472 Negative goodwill on acquisition 124,191 124,191 Net finance costs 68,188 755 68,943 Loss profit before tax 31,557 2,071 124,191 94,705 Total assets 566,236 102,405 668,641 Total liabilities 328,152 23,981 352,133 Non-current assets Intangible assets 118,127 9,676 127,803 Property, plant and equipment 299,280 47,605 346,885 Total 417,407 57,281 474,688 Revenue by product type Revenue by product type, split by geographical location.
indd 98 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 99 4.
Exceptional items Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Exceptional cost of sales 15,977 Exceptional administrative expenses: Acquisition costs Transaction costs 9,392 Retention and compensation payments 986 10,378 IPO costs Transaction costs 12,497 Retention and compensation payments 1,263 13,760 Total exceptional administrative expenses 24,138 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,403 Negative goodwill on acquisition 124,191 Total exceptional items 82,673 Acquisition costs Exceptional cost of sales In accordance with IFRS, the inventory value was uplifted to fair value at the date of the acquisition, and this adjustment increased cost of sales in the post-acquisition period.
The 15,977,000 cost incurred for the utilisation of the fair value uplift adjustment on inventory is considered an exceptional cost of sale as it is a non-cash and non-recurring item.
The inventory fair value uplift has fully unwound as at 31 December 2015.
Transaction costs Professional fees and other costs directly of 9,392,000 have been classified as exceptional in the current period.
These costs directly attributable to the acquisition transaction which occurred in February 2015 have been classified as exceptional due to their material nature and as they are not expected to recur.
Retention and compensation payments Other adjusting items of 986,000 in the period to December 2015 relate to retention bonuses due to key staff members which were committed to as part of our acquisition by Bain and the settlement of B shares held by management.
IPO costs Transaction costs Costs of 12,497,000 have been incurred during the process of our Initial Public Offering.
This represents professional fees, management fees incurred prior to our listing and other transaction costs.
Due to the non-recurring and material nature of such costs, they have been classified as exceptional in the current period.
Compensation and retention payments Upon the successful IPO of the Group, senior management were provided with bonuses 540,000 and share options 723,000, which vested immediately under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP scheme.
Since the bonus and cost of the award are fully recognised in the period, are not expected to recur and are intrinsically linked to the IPO transaction, they have been treated as exceptional in the current period.
See Note 25c i for further details of the award.
All other employee share schemes have been treated as recurring costs.
Negative goodwill For further details of how negative goodwill of 124,191,000 was generated on the business combination, see Note 24.
All exceptional items have been settled in cash, other than certain deal costs, share based payments, negative goodwill and the cost of sales adjustment that are non-cash in nature due to being items that are either equity settled, or items arising solely from fair value accounting in the Group accounts.
Tax on exceptional items Apart from the following items, exceptional items are taxable or deductible in full in the current period.
i Negative goodwill of 124,191,000 is non-taxable and therefore does not impact the reported tax credit for the period ii Acquisition costs of 7,039,000 and IPO transaction costs of 11,769,000 have been treated as non-tax deductible and increase the current tax charge by 3,808,000 iii A deferred tax asset of 150,000 has been recognised in respect of IPO-related share based payments totalling 723,000.
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment is non-tax deductible.
Exceptional finance costs detailed in Note 7 are tax deductible in full in the current period.
indd 99 12 04 2016 12:56 100 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Operating profit Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Operating profit includes the effect of crediting charging: Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 8,400 Raw material and consumable used 74,820 Employee benefit expense Note 6 74,541 Depreciation and amortisation Notes 11 and 12 21,324 Fair value unwind of inventories Note 4 15,977 Other production costs 34,502 Total cost of sales 229,564 Transportation expenses 29,265 Other employee benefit expense Note 6 22,573 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Note 12 1,403 Advertising costs 1,475 Operating lease payments 5,771 Operating lease income 550 Exceptional administrative expenses Note 4 24,138 Negative goodwill on acquisition Note 4 124,191 Auditor remuneration During the period the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor: Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Group Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements: 100 Fees payable to Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries 385 Tax compliance services 18 Tax advisory services 16 Audit related and transaction advisory services in respect of the initial public offering 1,500 Total 2,019 IBSTOCK 23 Notes 1 to 9 DRF2.
indd 100 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 101 6.
Employees and Directors Staff costs for the Group during the period: Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Wages and salaries 75,034 Social security costs 9,612 Pensions costs-defined benefit plans Note 19 9,895 Pensions costs-defined contribution plans Note 19 1,374 Share based payments Note 25 1,199 97,114 Average monthly number of people including Executive Directors employed: Period ended 31 December 2015 Sales staff 326 Administrative staff 200 Production staff 2,110 2,636 Period ended 31 December Key management compensation 2015 Short-term employee benefits 2,052 Post-employment benefits 99 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share based payment 1,181 3,332 Key management personnel has been defined as the Board of Ibstock plc, together with Directors of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Details of Directors remuneration are presented in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 78.
The aggregate remuneration for the purposes of the financial statements is 1,180,000.
Finance costs Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on shareholder loan notes i 4,327 Interest payable on preference shares i 3,617 Interest payable on revolving credit facility ii 797 Interest payable on bank borrowings old facility iii 18,744 Interest payable on bank borrowings new facility iii 1,095 Exceptional finance charge on extinguishment of secured borrowings and loss on early settlement of revolving credit facility iii 39,922 Total interest payable on bank borrowings 60,558 Cash payable interest 68,502 Net interest costs arising on the UK pension scheme Note 19 31 Net interest costs arising on the US pension scheme 417 Unwinding of discount on provisions changes in discount rate Note 17 491 Non-cash payable interest 939 Total finance costs 69,441 IBSTOCK 23 Notes 1 to 9 DRF2.
indd 101 12 04 2016 12:56 102 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued The shareholder loan notes, preference shares, old bank borrowings and revolving credit facility, each taken out on acquisition of the trading group in February 2015, were financial instruments held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The amortised cost method is based upon expected cash flows of each instrument.
i The loan notes attracted interest of 12% per annum on the principal plus any unpaid interest.
Interest is payable on a quarterly basis.
The notes are repayable at par on maturity in February 2021 or earlier at the option of the Company.
The par value of the shareholder loan notes was 51.8m.
In October 2015 the shareholder loan note and accrued interest were repaid, the consideration being in the form of B preference shares and deferred shares.
These newly issued shares were subsequently converted into ordinary and deferred shares as part of capital reorganisation that took place immediately prior to the IPO.
The 43,250,000 0.001 preference shares bore a 12% annual fixed yield, compounding quarterly on 31 March, 30 June, 30September and 31 December.
On any redemption of these shares, the Articles of the Company provided that all arrears and accruals if any of the dividend should be paid.
There was no fixed date of repayment: the shares could be redeemed at par at any time at the agreement of both the Company and the holder, or the shares are mandatorily redeemable at par on a triggering event, including the sale of the business.
There was no premium payable on the redemption and the preference shares carried no votes at general meetings.
In October 2015 the preference shares were converted into ordinary and deferred shares as part of a capital reorganisation that took place immediately prior to the IPO.
ii The old revolving credit facility RCF provided available funding of 40m until it was repaid and extinguished in October 2015.
Interest was charged at an annual rate of margin plus LIBOR floored at 1% : the margin ranged from 2.75% 3.50% dependent on the prevailing earnings of the Group on a rolling 12 months basis.
Interest was payable at either one, two, three or six-monthly intervals, as appropriate.
A commitment fee was payable on the undrawn element of the facility based on 35% of applicable margin.
In October 2015 the old RCF was repaid.
The revolving credit facility was repaid and extinguished earlier than previously planned in October 2015 leading to an acceleration of transaction costs and an exceptional loss on early settlement of 1,877,000. iii The bank borrowings are a financial instrument classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where the expectations of the nature and timing of cash flows change a one-off adjustment is required to adjust the carrying value of the financial instrument to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The old bank borrowings attracted interest of 8% plus LIBOR floored at 1% per annum, payable six monthly.
The borrowings were repayable at par in February 2021.
A voluntary early repayment exit charge of 38,045,000 was levied based on the nature and timing of the settlement.
The initial drawdown value of the borrowings was 250m in February 2015.
On 30 June 2015 management revised the estimated lives and maturity dates for the securitised debt to October 2015 previously to March 2018 after considering plans for an expected refinancing and associated make whole premium, resulting in an exceptional finance charge.
On repayment of this debt in October 2015 this facility was extinguished.
A new bank borrowing facility was entered into in September 2015 with new lenders and was first drawn in October as disclosed in Note 18.
This financial instrument is also classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For further details on these facilities, see Note 18.
Finance income Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Interest income: Other interest receivable 16 Fair value gain on financial instrument 482 498 IBSTOCK 23 Notes 1 to 9 DRF2.
indd 102 12 04 2016 12:56 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 103 9.
Taxation Analysis of income tax charge Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Current tax on profits for the period 1,878 Foreign withholding tax suffered 291 Total current tax 2,169 Deferred tax on profits for the period 3,942 Impact of change in tax rate 5,096 Total deferred tax Note 20 9,038 Income tax credit 6,869 The total tax credit comprises: UK 6,567 US 302 6,869 Tax on items charged to other comprehensive income Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 734 The tax credit for the period differs from the applicable standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% in the period ended 31 December 2015.
The differences are explained below: Period ended 31 December 2015 000 Percentage Profit before tax 94,705 100% Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% in the period ended 31 December 2015 19,178 20.25% Effects of: Other expenses not deductible 1,133 1.20% US withholding tax suffered 291 0.31% Different effective tax rate on US current period earnings 137 0.14% Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 738 0.78 % Total tax charge before deferred tax rate change and exceptional items 20,001 21.12% Other expenses not deductible exceptional items 3,809 4.02% Negative goodwill arising on acquisition 25,584 27.01 % Rate change on deferred tax provision 5,095 5.38 % Total taxation expense credit 6,869 7.25 % The tax credit for the period includes a deferred tax credit of 738,000 relating to the recognition of US state tax losses acquired as part of the business combination.
These tax losses were not recognised at the acquisition date due to the historic tax loss position of the US business.
The US business has reported a taxable profit for the period and is expected to remain profitable in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax benefit has been recognised accordingly.
There are no income tax consequences for the Company in respect of dividends declared prior to the date of authorisation of these financial statements and for which a liability has not been recognised.
The Group expects its effective tax rate in the future to be affected by the geographical mix of profits and the different tax rates that will apply to those profits, the use of brought forward tax losses, the outcome of any future tax audits as well as the impact of changes in tax law.
The reduction in the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
The further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26October 2015 and the impact of these tax rate changes are reflected in these financial statements accordingly.
indd 103 12 04 2016 12:56 104 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Earnings per share Weighted average no.
Per share Earnings of shares amount Period from 28 November 2014 to 31 December 2015 000s 000s pence Earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 101,574 288,236 35.2 Effect of share incentive awards and options 60 Diluted earnings per share 101,574 288,296 35.2 Earnings per share are calculated on 288,236,000 number of ordinary shares in issue for the period ended 31 December 2015.
Diluted earnings per share assumes conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares which arise from share incentive scheme awards granted to employees.
The effect of this dilution is to increase the weighted average number of ordinary shares to 288,296,000.
Per share Earnings of shares amount Adjusted earnings per share: Notes 000s 000s pence Reconciliation from profit to Adjusted profit Profit 101,574 Add back exceptional items 4 42,751 Add back tax credit on exceptional items 13,595 Add back fair value adjustments 7,546 Add tax credit on fair value adjustments 6,007 Basic adjusted earnings per share 46,767 288,236 16.2 Effect of share incentive awards and options 60 Diluted Adjusted earnings per share 46,767 288,296 16.2 11.
Intangible assets 31 December 2015 Customer contracts and relationships Brands Total 000 000 000 Cost At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination Note 24 87,600 45,400 133,000 Exchange movements 242 242 At 31 December 2015 87,600 45,642 133,242 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 28 November 2014 Charge for the period 4,505 934 5,439 Exchange movements At 31 December 2015 4,505 934 5,439 Net book amount At 31 December 2015 83,095 44,708 127,803 Amortisation is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
indd 104 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 105 The remaining amortisation period of customers relationships is 10 to 20 years.
The remaining amortisation period of brands is outlined below: At 31 December Remaining 2015 amortisation Brands 000 period Years Ibstock Brick 31,464 49.2 Forticrete 732 9.2 Supreme 2,831 14.2 Glen-Gery 9,681 49.2 44,708 12.
There are no assets which are used as security.
Management reviews the business performance based on segments reported in Note 3.
In the current year impairment tests have not been conducted as management believes that there is no indication of impairment of an asset.
Inventories 31 December 2015 000 Raw materials 18,445 Work in progress 2,639 Finished goods 61,973 83,057 The replacement cost of inventories is not considered to be materially different from the above values.
Inventory values were uplifted to fair value at the date of the acquisition, and the unwind adjustment increased cost of sales in the post-acquisition period see Note 4 for further details.
All of the fair value uplift has now unwound.
At 31 December 2015, a provision of 2,670,000 is held against the inventory balance.
indd 105 12 04 2016 12:55 106 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 2015 000 Trade receivables 46,085 Provision for impairment of receivables 654 Net trade receivables 45,431 Prepayments and accrued income 3,266 Other receivables 926 Reimbursement asset 9,000 Total trade and other receivables 58,623 The reimbursement asset represents an indemnity receivable from former parent undertaking which will be directly contributed to the pension scheme.
Subsequent to 31 December 2015 this amount was received.
A related liability for any additional pension liabilities that may arise as a result of the equalisation of pension benefits has been recognised within post-employment benefit obligations see Note19.
The assessment of the valuation of this indemnity is linked to an assessment of the additional pension liabilities that may arise.
There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 2015 000 Cash at bank and in hand 51,024 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: 31 December 2015 000 Cash at bank and in hand 51,024 Cash and cash equivalents 51,024 16.
Trade and other payables 31 December 2015 000 Trade payables 35,899 Contingent consideration on acquisition Note 24 4,000 Other tax and social security payable 4,976 Accruals and other payables 34,361 79,236 There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Included in accruals and other payables above is deferred income, due to unwind in more than one year, of 214,000.
indd 106 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 107 17.
Provisions 31 December 2015 000 Restoration i 4,905 Dilapidations ii 8,005 Restructuring iii 183 Other iv 1,380 14,473 Current 1,291 Non-current 13,182 14,473 31 December 2015 Restoration Dilapidations Restructuring Other i ii iii iv Total 000 000 000 000 000 At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination Note 24 4,418 8,000 238 1,666 14,322 Utilised 61 63 505 629 Charged to income statement 75 216 291 Unwind of discount change in rate 394 33 63 490 Reversed unused 12 25 37 Other movements 137 38 175 Translation adjustment 228 5 22 211 At 31 December 2015 4,905 8,005 183 1,380 14,473 i T he restoration provision comprises obligations governing site remediation and improvement costs to be incurred in compliance with applicable environmental regulations together with constructive obligations stemming from established practice once the sites have been fully utilised.
The key estimates associated with calculating the provision relate to the cost per acre to perform the necessary remediation work as at the reporting date together with determining the year of retirement.
Estimates are updated annually based on the total estimated available reserves and the expected extraction rates.
Whilst a significant element of the total provision will reverse in the medium term two to 10 years, the majority of the legal and constructive obligations applicable to mineral-bearing land will unwind over a 30-year timeframe.
In discounting the related obligations, expected future cash outflows have been determined with due regard to extraction status and anticipated remaining life.
ii Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash outflows.
iii The restructuring provision covers current and former employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
iv Other provisions relate to provisions for the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP, product warranties, landfill and onerous contracts.
The SERP is a defined contribution retirement plan in respect of basic salary entitlements for executive directors.
The product warranties are based on the estimate of the cost of fulfilling customer warranty claims.
The estimate is derived principally from historical data appropriately adjusted for specific risk factors.
Under the Groups standard sales terms, the Group repairs or replace items that fail to perform satisfactorily for one year from the date of delivery to the customer.
It is expected that the most of this expenditure will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
The landfill provision relates to the restoration of the associated sites and environmental remediation required by legislation.
The onerous contract provision provides cover for the exposure that the Group has forboth current property leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the current market rents and vacant properties atacquisition.
Amounts arising on acquisition of the trading business include contingent liabilities to reflect present obligations that existed at the date of acquisition.
This includes certain legal claims in the UK of 1,100,000 which have been included in Other.
For further details see Note 24.
The Group holds insurance performance bonds with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in respect of the Groups maintenance and remediation obligations in respect of sites from which materials are being extracted.
The bonds are typically in favour of the Department of Environmental Protection within the relevant jurisdictions.
At 31 December 2015 the value of the bonds amounted to 1,230,000.
The maximum term on the bonds outstanding at that date is September 2016.
The bonds are typically renewed on an annual basis at comparable levels.
Bank of America has provided a letter of credit of 50,000 on behalf of the Group to the National Union Fire Insurance Company.
Thisletter of credit renews on an annual basis.
indd 107 12 04 2016 12:55 108 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Borrowings 31 December 2015 000 Current Bank borrowings i 14,097 Non-current Revolving credit facility ii Bank borrowings i 181,658 181,658 Total borrowings 195,755 A 240m facilities agreement covering the following financial instruments was entered into as part strategic planning for the Initial Public Offering in October 2015: i New bank borrowings A five-year 200m facility was entered into in September 2015 and first drawn in October with mandatory repayments of 15m due on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversary dates subject to the Companys right to elect not to make one of the repayment instalments due during the term of the loan.
The borrowings attracted interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as consolidated total net debt as a proportion of consolidated EBITDA plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either three or six monthly at the option of the Group.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn element of the facility based on 35% of applicable margin.
ii New revolving credit facility New RCF A New RCF for 40m over five years was entered into in September 2015.
The borrowings attract interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as above plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either one, three or six monthly at the option of the Company.
Throughout the period and as at 31 December 2015 the New RCF was undrawn.
The carrying value of financial liabilities have been assessed as materially in line with their fair values.
Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined benefit plan Analysis of movements in the net obligation during the period: 31 December 2015 000 Funded plan at 31 December 2015 Opening balance at 28 November 2014 Arising on acquisition 4,704 Charge within labour costs and operating profit 9,730 Interest expense 31 Remeasurement gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 11,709 Pension scheme surplus restriction recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 8,037 Contributions 11,124 Carried forward at 31 December 2015 331 The Group participates in the Ibstock Pension Scheme the Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
The Scheme has four participating employers Ibstock Brick Limited, Forticrete Limited, Anderton Concrete Products Limited, Figgs Bidco Limited from 26 February 2015 and Tyrone Brick Limited up to 26 February 2015.
The Scheme is funded by payment of contributions to a separate trustee administered fund.
The Scheme is a revalued earnings plan and provides benefits to its members based on their length of membership in the Scheme and their average salary over that period.
The Scheme is administered by trustees who employ independent fund managers for the investment of the pension scheme assets.
These assets are kept entirely separate from those of the Group.
Total annual contributions to the Scheme are based on independent actuarial advice, and are gauged to fund future pension liabilities including projected increases in earnings and pensions in respect of service up to the balance sheet date.
The Scheme is subject to independent actuarial valuation at least every three years using the projected unit method.
indd 108 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 109 The valuation used as at 31 December 2015 has been based on the initial results of the 30 November 2014 valuation.
This Scheme has a surplus that is not fully recognised on the basis that future economic benefits are not unconditionally available to the Group in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a cash refund.
Given the contribution plan adopted, the present value of the economic benefits of the IAS 19 surplus in the pension scheme of 17,368,000 available on a reduction of future contributions is 331,000.
As a result the Group has not recognised the full IAS 19 surplus on the balance sheet and has restricted the full actuarial surplus by 17,037,000 in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements.
There are, however, no unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and no significant concentrations of risk.
The risks can be summarised as follows: asset value volatility, with the associated impact on the assets held in connection with the funding of pension obligations and the related cash flows: changes in bond yields, with any reduction resulting in an increase in the present value of pension obligations, mitigated by an increase in the value of plan assets: risk of volatility in inflation rates as pension obligations are generally linked to inflation: and life expectancy, as pension benefits are provided for the life of beneficiaries and their dependents.
Balance sheet assets obligations : 31 December 2015 000 Equities 236,100 Bonds 270,767 Properties 24,285 Liability driven investment 23,787 Cash 3,947 Total market value of assets 558,886 Present value of scheme liabilities 550,518 Net scheme asset 8,368 Pension scheme surplus restriction 8,037 Post-employment benefit asset after surplus restriction 331 Other pension commitments 8,007 Post-employment benefit obligation 8,007 All equities and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market.
Properties and cash and cash equivalents are unquoted.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 31 December 2015 000 Current service cost 9,389 Administrative expenses 341 Multi-employer scheme contributions 165 Defined contribution scheme 1,374 Charge within labour costs and operating profit 11,269 Interest expense 31 Total charge to the income statement 11,300 Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 31 December 2015 000 Remeasurement loss on defined benefit scheme assets 24,569 Remeasurement gain from changes in financial assumptions 22,020 Remeasurement gain from changes in demographic assumptions 14,648 Experience adjustments 390 Other comprehensive income 11,709 IBSTOCK 24 Notes 10 to 21 DRF2.
indd 109 12 04 2016 12:55 110 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation at 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination 575,041 Current service cost 9,389 Interest cost 16,015 Contributions by scheme participants 64 Experience losses 390 Benefits paid 13,530 Remeasurement gain arising from change in financial assumptions 22,020 Remeasurement gains arising from change in demographic assumptions 14,648 Insurance premium for risk benefits 183 Present value of defined benefit obligations carried forward at 31 December 2015 550,518 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Fair value of pension scheme assets at 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination 570,337 Interest income 15,984 Remeasurement loss on pension scheme assets 24,569 Employer contributions 11,124 Contributions by scheme participants 64 Benefits paid 13,530 Administrative expenses 341 Insurance premium for risk benefits 183 Fair value of pension scheme assets carried forward 558,886 Plan assets are comprised as follows: Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 % Equity Instruments 236,100 236,100 UK equities 65,348 65,348 12% Overseas equities 129,521 129,521 23% Emerging market equities 41,231 41,231 7% Debt Instruments 270,767 270,767 UK corporate bonds 148,056 148,056 27% Index linked gilts 122,711 122,711 22% Property Property 24,285 24,285 4% Liability driven investment 23,787 23,787 4% Cash and net current assets 3,947 3,947 1% Total 531,152 27,734 558,886 100% IBSTOCK 24 Notes 10 to 21 DRF2.
indd 110 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 111 The Group continued to contribute 16.0% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme during the period reported.
A payment schedule has been agreed with the Trustees of the Ibstock Pension Scheme so that the Schemes deficit can be eliminated.
This includes the Group continuing to contribute 16% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme as well as a further 7.0m per annum until May 2021.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19 years.
At the 31 December 2015 balance sheet date, a reimbursement asset is recorded which will be directly contributed to the Scheme.
Refer to Note 14 Trade and other receivables.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary in his calculations were: 31 December 2015 Per annum Discount rate 3.85% RPI inflation 3.10% CPI inflation 2.10% Rate of increase in salary 3.10% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.60% Mortality assumptions: life expectancy from age 65 For a male currently aged 65 22.9 years For a female currently aged 65 25.5 years For a male currently aged 40 25.3 years For a female currently aged 40 28.0 years The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases to life expectancy.
The life expectancies quoted for members currently aged 40 assume that they retire at age 65 i. e. 25 years after the balance sheet date.
The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The obligations are primarily in Sterling and have a maturity of some 19 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.25%, the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 would decrease increase by approximately 4%.
The impact on the defined benefit obligation to changes in the financial and demographic assumptions is shown below: 31 December 2015 000 0.25% increase in discount rate 24,327 0.25% decrease in discount rate 26,091 0.25% increase in salary growth rate 16,370 0.25% decrease in salary growth rate 15,547 0.25% increase in pension growth rate 19,588 0.25% decrease in pension growth rate 16,467 0.25% increase in inflation rate 19,588 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 16,467 One-year increase in life expectancy 20,130 One-year decrease in life expectancy 20,159 A special contribution of 60m was paid in the pre-acquisition period.
Refer to Note 24 for further details.
b Multi-employer scheme The Group participates in two multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes, being Aluminium, Brick and Glass Workers International Union AB&GW and National Integrated Group Pension Plan NIGPP, which are both held in the United States.
As the Group is unable toidentify its share of the assets and liabilities for these schemes as insufficient information is available on which to calculate this split as confirmed with the schemes actuaries, they are accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
The charge for the period to December 2015 is 390,000.
The Group is not liable for any other contributing entities within either scheme.
For exit from the schemes by the Group at the most recent actuarial valuation, it was estimated that the withdrawal liability for the schemes equalled 13,981,000 and 1,281,000 for the AB&GW and NIGPP, respectively, although management currently do not have any plans on withdrawing from either scheme.
The minimum contribution requirements for the AB&GW scheme are based on a minimum monthly charge per active employee, with theminimum contribution requirements for the NIGPP scheme being based on a minimum charge per hour worked.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period, being the year ending December 2016, is 450,000.
In respect of the AB&GW scheme, based on the total contributions made in 2015 to the multi-employer schemes, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was 86% and the Group has 71% of all members active, deferred and retired.
In respect of the NIGPP scheme, based on the proportion of the withdrawal liability against total plan liabilities, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was less than 1%.
indd 111 12 04 2016 12:55 112 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued The AB&GW plan has a deficit as at 31 December 2014 of 5,901,000.
The contribution rates agreed to be paid by the Group include an element of rehabilitation funding with respect to the total plan deficit.
For this scheme, the arrangements gives rise to a present obligation and as such a liability has been recognised of 8,007,000 26 February 2015: 7,538,000 for future committed contribution amounts as at 31 December 2015, with an associated recognised deferred tax asset of 3,052,000.
This has been calculated by discounting the future cash flows, which accrete at 7% per annum in line with the rehabilitation funding plan as set by the scheme Trustees, at a rate commensurate with the time value of money using a 20-year US treasury rate given the duration of the rehabilitation funding plan runs to 2034.
This calculation is based onmanagements estimated number of employees in future years.
The Trustees meet annually to reassess the funding contribution increase this has been set at the 7% rate since 2012.
Based on the contribution rates and total withdrawal liability for the NIGPP plan, management have determined any present obligation arising from the plan is immaterial.
c Defined contribution plan The Group operates defined contribution schemes under the Ibstock pension scheme, the Supreme Concrete Limited pension scheme, the Anderton Concrete pension scheme and the Supreme Concrete Group Personal Plan.
Contributions by both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested, externally administered funds.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the above defined contribution schemes, and thereafter has no further obligations in relation to the scheme.
The total cost charged to income in relation to the defined contribution scheme in the period was 1,374,000.
Deferred tax assets liabilities The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 31 December 2015 000 Deferred tax liability at 28 November 2014 Arising on business combinations 62,773 Differences on exchange 138 Tax credited charged to the Group income statement 9,038 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 734 Tax credited charged directly to equity 55 Net deferred tax liability at period-end 54,662 Deferred tax asset 18,830 Deferred tax liability 73,492 Net deferred tax liability at period-end 54,662 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 3,686 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 15,144 18,830 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year 4,153 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year 69,339 73,492 IBSTOCK 24 Notes 10 to 21 DRF2.
indd 112 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 113 The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 31 December 2015 Other Accelerated Rolled over Employee including Intangible tax Land and held pensions reimburseDeferred tax liabilities assets depreciation revaluation over gains liabilities ment asset Total At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combinations 28,340 48,270 1,104 1,786 859 3,814 84,173 Differences on exchange 288 43 331 Ta x credited charged to the Group income statement 3,133 4,893 59 260 1,527 1,874 11,746 Ta x recognised within other comprehensive income 734 734 At 31 December 2015 25,207 43,665 1,088 1,526 66 1,940 73,492 31 December 2015 Accelerated Employee Share Pension Other tax pensions incentive contribution including Deferred tax assets depreciation liabilities plans spreading Tax losses provisions Total At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination 2,874 379 12,061 1,063 5,023 21,400 Differences on exchange 82 38 73 193 Ta x credited charged to the Group income statement 151 96 112 2,819 22 46 2,708 Ta x credited charged directly to equity 55 55 At 31 December 2015 151 3,052 212 9,242 1,123 5,050 18,830 A deferred tax asset of 227,000 in respect of State net operating losses has not been recognised in these consolidated financial statements.
These unrecognised tax losses expire within a period of between five and 20 years.
Financial instruments risk management Loans and receivables 31 December 2015 Financial assets 000 Trade and other receivables Note 14 55,798 Cash and cash equivalents Note 15 51,024 Total 106,822 Loans and payables 31 December 2015 Financial liabilities 000 Trade and other payables Note 16 74,260 Provisions Note 17 13,373 Borrowings Note 18 195,755 Total 283,388 All financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, credit sales and deposits with banks and is managed on a Group basis.
This risk arises from transactions with banks, such as those involving cash and cash equivalents and deposits.
To reduce the credit risk, the Group has concentrated its main activities with a Group of banks that have strong, independently verified credit ratings.
For each bank, individual risk limits are set based on its financial position, credit ratings, past experience and other factors.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
The Group has significant sales contracts with a number of blue-chip companies and accordingly the Directors believe there is a limited exposure to credit risk, but this is actively monitored at Board level.
The Groups policy on credit risk requires appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
indd 113 12 04 2016 12:55 114 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due not considered to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Not past due 33,949 Less than one month past due 9,324 One to six months past due 1,997 Six to 12 months past due 149 More than 12 months past due 12 45,431 Other receivables are due to be received within the next 12 months.
The reimbursement asset was received after the year end.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due determined to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Less than one month past due 6 One to six months past due 414 Six to 12 months past due 108 More than 12 months past due 126 654 Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Arising on business combination Note 24 495 Charged to the income statement 254 Utilised 104 Exchange movements 9 Closing impairment provision 654 Market risk Market risk is defined as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, being currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
In the post-IPO period the Groups interest rate risk arises principally from the revolving credit facility and bank borrowings which attract floating rate interest, see Note 18.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using a floating rate debt with varying repayment terms.
The Group also does not trade in derivative financial instruments and so is not considered to be exposed to other price risk.
The exposure to currency risk is considered low.
The exposure in different currency of financial assets and liabilities is as follows: Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2015 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Note 15 42,264 8,420 340 51,024 Trade and other receivables Note 14 44,926 10,360 512 55,798 87,190 18,780 852 106,822 Financial liabilities Borrowings Note 18 195,755 195,755 Trade and other payables Note 16 63,755 9,657 848 74,260 Provisions Note 17 12,465 908 13,373 271,975 10,565 848 283,388 There are no material differences between the fair values and the book values stated above.
indd 114 12 04 2016 12:55 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 115 The Group has negligible risk to currency fluctuations as the majority of assets and liabilities are held in the same functional currency.
Liquidity risk The Group has generated sufficient cash from operations to meet its working capital requirements and finance its investing activities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by entering into committed bank borrowing facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available, and monitoring cash flow forecasts to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
The maturity of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Greater Less than Six months Two to five than five six months to one year years years Total At 31 December 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Borrowings Bank borrowings 14,097 181,658 195,755 Total 14,097 181,658 195,755 The Group has an RCF facility of 40m over five years that was entered into in September 2015.
At 31 December 2015 the full facility was undrawn.
See Note 18 for further details.
For details of the maturity of other financial liabilities, see Note 16.
The contractual non-discounted minimum future cash flows in respect of these borrowings are: Greater Less than Two to five than five one year years years Total At 31 December 2015 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 20,622 202,629 223,251 Total 20,622 202,629 223,251 Fair value hierarchy IFRS 13 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires fair value measurements to be recognised using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in the measurements, according to the following levels: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
All of the Groups fair value measurements have been categorised as Level 2 except for contingent consideration which has been categorised as Level 3.
There were no transfers between levels during the period.
Financial instruments in Level 3 The Groups financial instruments that are categorised under Level 3 are contingent consideration and the techniques used to value are provided in Note 24.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the period ended 31 December 2015.
Contingent consideration 000 At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination 4,000 Gains and losses recognised in profit and loss At 31 December 2015 4,000 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital, defined as net funds, are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or borrow additional debt.
Following the issue of the new banking facilities in September 2015 the Group must comply with two covenants each quarter from 30 June 2016.
The covenants are certain ratios of interest cover and leverage, which are monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
At the period end date, management believes significant headroom exists on both covenant conditions.
Immediately prior to and following the Groups admission to the London Stock Exchange, a capital reorganisation took place.
Further details are provided in Note 22.
indd 115 12 04 2016 12:55 116 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Called up share capital Share Share capital premium Number of shares 000 000 Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1 each 50,000 50 Total share capital on incorporation on 3 September 2015 50,000 50 Consolidation of shares followed by designation into A ordinary shares 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each into 6,250 ordinary shares of 8 each 6,250 50 Capital reorganisation involving: i Allotment of shares as part of the share for share exchange A ordinary shares of 8 each 9,993,750 79,950 B ordinary shares of 8 each 80,000 640 A preference shares of 8 each 43,250,000 346,000 B preference shares of 8 each 7,009,738 56,078 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 648 60,334,136 482,668 Total share capital following the share for share exchange 60,340,386 482,718 ii Sub-division of ordinary and preference shares from 8 each into 0.01 each A ordinary shares of 0.01 each 8,000,000,000 80,000 B ordinary shares of 0.01 each 64,000,000 640 A preference shares of 0.01 each 34,600,000,000 346,000 B preference shares of 0.01 each 5,607,790,400 56,078 48,271,790,400 482,718 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 648 Total share capital following the sub-division of shares 48,271,791,048 482,718 iii Redesignation of shares into ordinary and deferred shares of 0.01 each Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 352,868,422 3,529 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 47,918,922,626 479,189 Total share capital immediately prior to IPO 48,271,791,048 482,718 Ordinary shares of 1 each issued in the primary offering 52,631,578 526 94,521 Total share capital following primary offering Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 405,500,000 4,055 94,521 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 47,918,922,626 479,189 Total share capital on IPO 48,324,422,626 483,244 94,521 Capital reduction 47,918,922,626 479,189 94,521 At 31 December 2015 405,500,000 4,055 Comprised of: Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 405,500,000 4,055 The Groups capital structure was reorganised during the period in preparation for the IPO.
On 22 October 2015, the existing share capital structure was reorganised as set out above to consist of a single class of ordinary shares and a single class of deferred shares.
Following the capital reorganisation, 352,868,422 new ordinary shares of 0.01 each and 47,918,922,626 new deferred shares of 0.01 each were in issue.
At IPO on 27 October 2015, the Company issued 52,631,578 new ordinary shares of 0.01 each at a premium of 1.89 per share.
Share issue costs of 5.0m were offset against the share premium of 99.5m created on the issue of these shares.
indd 116 12 04 2016 12:54 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 117 On 16 December 2015, a capital reduction was completed in accordance with the terms of a special resolution passed on 21 October 2015 under which: i 47,918,922,626 deferred shares of 0.01 each were cancelled and extinguished: and ii the sum standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account an amount of 94,521,000 was cancelled.
Following the capital reduction, the issued share capital of the Company consists of 405,500,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
Reserves Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserves Other reserves relate to contingent consideration arising on acquisition where there is no contractual obligation to settle the liability in cash based on events outside the Groups control.
Merger reserve The merger reserve of 369,119,000 arose on the acquisition of Figgs Topco Limited by Ibstock plc and is the difference between the share capital and share premium of Figgs Topco Limited and the nominal value of the investment and preference shares in Figgs Topco Limited acquired by the Company.
Further details are provided in Note 1.
24. Business combinations On 26 February 2015, Figgs Topco Limited acquired 100% of the voting shares of Ibstock Group Limited and its subsidiaries, and Glen-Gery Corporation and its subsidiaries together the acquired operations.
The entities acquired specialise in the manufacture of clay and concrete building products.
The acquisition of these entities establishes the Group as a leading building products manufacturer in the UK and in the North East and Mid West regions of the US.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed: The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired operations as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value recognised on acquisition 000 Assets Customer contracts and relationships 87,600 Brands 45,400 Property, plant and equipment 349,947 Inventories 89,518 Trade and other receivables 80,408 Cash and cash equivalents 7,465 Total assets 660,338 Liabilities Trade and other payables 67,932 Derivative financial instruments 508 Current tax liabilities 408 Post employment benefit obligations 12,242 Deferred tax liabilities 62,773 Provisions 14,322 Total liabilities 158,185 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 502,153 Negative goodwill arising on acquisition immediately recognised within the income statement 124,191 Purchase consideration transferred 377,962 The fair value of the trade and other receivables amounts to 80,408,000, which equates to a net amount of trade receivables.
The gross amount due under contracts is 80,903,000 of which 495,000 is expected to be uncollectable.
The full analysis of the deferred tax arising on business combination is set out in Note 20.
The consideration paid in association with the purchase of the Ibstock Group of companies was based on a multiple of earnings and not an assessment of the fair value of the assets of the business.
As there is considerable value associated with intangible assets that only arise in the consolidated financial statements, and our tangible assets reflect the current market demand for building products and production capacity, the fair value of the acquired net assets are in excess of the consideration paid, and therefore negative goodwill has arisen, which has been immediately taken to the income statement.
There are no expected taxation consequences in relation to the negative goodwill recognised.
indd 117 12 04 2016 12:54 118 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Provisions and contingent liabilities at fair value of 7,000,000 were recognised at the acquisition date resulting from various legal claims in the UK of 1,100,000, UK property risks of 3,300,000 and an environmental claim of 2,600,000 in the US.
These fair values were provisional pending the receipt of final valuations of the potential liabilities.
As at 31 December 2015, a final external valuation of the UK property risks has been received and the fair value increased from 3,300,000 to 7,850,000, and an internal valuation exercise identified increased US property risks of 151,000.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, management has also received external legal advice that no liability in relation to the US environmental claim is required resulting in a reduction in contingent liabilities of 2,600,000.
Additionally, management identified a 2,151,000 liability in respect of employee compensation previously recognised as a post-acquisition exceptional period cost.
The related deferred taxation liability uplift of these final fair value adjustments is 210,000.
As at the reporting date, all other fair values were determined to remain as originally determined at the acquisition date.
Purchase consideration 000 Initial cash consideration 312,853 Pension contribution 60,000 Contingent land proceeds 1,109 Contingent pension tax benefit 4,000 Total consideration 377,962 As part of the acquisition, the Group agreed to make a one-off contribution of 60,000,000 to the Ibstock Brick Limited pension scheme on completion of the transaction.
As the transaction was conditional on the contribution being made the payment cannot be separated from the business combination and therefore, in accordance with IFRS 3, is treated as part of the acquirers consideration paid for the business.
The post-employment benefit obligation includes this 60,000,000 contribution.
Additionally, in accordance with the Share Sale Agreement SSA, half of any tax relief, over a contracted amount, received by the acquired business as a result of the one-off pension payment, shall be payable to the seller.
The fair value of the future obligation was estimated at 4,000,000, with a range being nil to 4,000,000.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner of the acquired operations, half of all proceeds above a contracted amount, received by the acquired business on the sale of certain land assets in the future, shall be payable to the seller.
Sale of land assets is in the control of the Group and accordingly is recognised in equity.
Contingent consideration was recognised in relation to this, based on managements best estimate of 1,109,000 from an estimated range of nil to 3,800,000.
Transaction costs in relation to the acquisition of 9,392,000 were expensed and are included within administrative expenses.
From the date of acquisition, the acquired operations contributed 358,331,000 of revenue and 96,004,000 to profit before taxation of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial statement period, revenue would have been 438,435,000 and profit before taxation of the Group would have been 80,383,000.
To provide the users of the accounts with a comparable view of performance, we have analysed below the performance of the acquired entities from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
The information for this period has been adjusted to include the impact of the fair value exercise and new financing structure as if it had been in place since the start of the period.
The period ending 31 December 2014 has been included as comparative information, but has not been updated for the impact of the fair value exercise or financing structure following the acquisition.
indd 118 12 04 2016 12:54 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 119 2015 2014 000 000 Revenue 412,828 373,233 Cost of sales before exceptional items 255,035 255,333 Gross profit before exceptional items 157,793 117,900 Exceptional cost of sales 15,977 Gross profit 141,816 117,900 Distribution costs 34,108 34,601 Administrative expenses before exceptional items 44,841 37,922 Other administrative exceptional items 24,329 5,355 Net administrative expenses 69,170 43,277 Negative goodwill on acquisition 124,191 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,399 492 Other income 3,474 3,709 Other expenses 816 1,051 Operating profit 163,988 43,172 EBITDA before exceptional items 107,014 64,993 Less add exceptional items 83,885 5,355 Less add profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,399 492 Less depreciation and amortisation 25,512 16,958 Operating profit 163,988 43,172 25.
Share incentive plans a Old scheme arrangements held by subsidiaries on acquisition The acquisition of the trading entities of the Group on the 26 February 2015 triggered a modification to certain existing share incentive plans.
The schemes in place became cash settled on acquisition and the respective liabilities of these awards have been accounted within the fair value of net assets acquired.
b Management equity arrangements issued on acquisition Ordinary B shares options On 26 February 2015 certain members of management were issued with 80,000 ordinary B shares in Figgs Topco Limited for a consideration of 7.55 per share.
See Note 22 for details of the share reorganisation which took place in the period.
B shareholders are entitled to a certain percentage of any proceeds received in the event of a sale of the business.
The percentage receivable is dependent on the level of return on investment made by the ultimate parent and can range from 0% to 12.5%.
Holders of vested B shares are entitled to receive the proceeds as set out above, holders of unvested B shares are only entitled to ever receive the original equity cost paid by management for the shares at grant.
Provided that the holder remains in employment a proportion of the shares vest on each anniversary from grant until the fifth anniversary when all awards will have vested.
All unvested awards will automatically vest on an exit event.
Number of awards At the beginning of the period Granted 80,000 Vested 80,000 At the end of the period The fair value of the awards at the date of grant has been measured using a binomial option pricing model which takes into account a number of possible outcomes and weights the likelihood of each.
Assumptions Term 13 years Equity price 7.55 Risk-free rate 0.56%0.77% Volatility 400% Dividend yield 0% Fair value per share 12.97 Subscription price 7.55 These options vested in full on IPO and the total charge for the period relating to the management equity issued on acquisition is 434,000.
indd 119 12 04 2016 12:54 120 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued c New employee arrangements issued on IPO Following the IPO of the Group on 27 October 2015, the Group entered into a new share incentive plans: the Ibstock plc Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the Ibstock plc Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan the ABP and the Ibstock plc Share Option Plan the SOP.
In addition, the Group has also established three all-employee share incentive plans, the Ibstock plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP and the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan the SAYE.
The LTIP, ABP and SOP are, together, the Discretionary Plans, and the Discretionary Plans, the SIP and the SAYE, together, the New Plans.
The Group recognised total expense in the consolidated statement of income of 765,000 relating to the new employee arrangements issued on IPO during the period.
i LTIP The Group has introduced a LTIP during the period for key management at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by the shareholders at the General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of nil-priced share options.
As part of the IPO process, 337,665 number of shares were issued and immediately vested.
The full loss of 723,000 has been treated as exceptional in the current period.
ii SOP The Group has introduced a Share Option Plan during the period for all eligible employees at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme have a specified exercise price with an employment condition of three years.
The total number of awards issued under this scheme during the period equalled 848,312. iii SAYE In order to participate in the Sharesave Plan, an employee must enter into a linked savings contract with a bank or building society to make contributions from salary on a monthly basis over a three or five-year period.
A participant who enters into a savings agreement is granted an option to acquire ordinary shares under the Sharesave Plan at a specified exercise price.
The total number of awards issued under this scheme during the period equalled 3,416,496.
The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the LTIP, SOP and SAYE awards during the period are detailed below: LTIP SOP SAYE Grant date 04-Dec-15 04-Dec-15 10-Dec-15 Share price at grant date 2.14 2.14 2.11 Exercise price 2.12 1.52 Number of shares issued 337,665 848,312 3,416,496 Vesting period Immediately 3 years 3 years Pricing model Binomial Binomial Binomial % expected to vest 100% 95% 95% Expected share price volatility n a 27.38% 27.38% Expected dividend yield n a 3.26% 3.26% Fair value per share 2.14 0.43 0.59 Risk-free rate 0.89% 0.89% 0.89% In assessing the expected volatility level, due to Ibstock plcs short share price history, volatility of similar listed companies have been used as a proxy.
The following post-IPO awards were issued and the number of awards granted during the period is yet to be determined.
iv ABP The ABP incorporates the Companys executive bonus scheme as well as a mechanism for the deferral of bonus into awards over ordinary shares.
The ABP will operate in respect of the annual bonus earned for the financial period with a mandatory maturity of 50% of the annual bonus deferred into shares, with the first deferred awards over ordinary shares under the ABP to be made in 2016.
The awards will have a nil exercise price with an employment condition of three years.
v SIP The Company introduced a Share Incentive Plan on flotation.
All employees were entitled to apply for free shares up to a value of 800 depending on their period of service, although the offer was declined by the Executive Directors.
The number of shares issued is yet to be determined however is considered to be wholly immaterial in the current period.
indd 120 12 04 2016 12:54 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 121 26.
Operating leases and commitments The Group as lessee Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 31 December 2015 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 2,553 3,744 6,297 Between two and five years 8,188 6,099 14,287 After five years 20,898 80 20,978 31,639 9,923 41,562 The Group is lessee on a number of properties in addition to plant and machinery which it uses in its operations.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their non-cancellable commitments are set out above.
There is no material contingent rent payable, renewal or purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions imposed by the lease agreements.
2,500,000 of the non-cancellable operating leases relate to the leased assets above.
The Group as lessor The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Within one year 561 Between two and five years 818 After five years 1,391 2,770 The Group acts as lessor on a number of properties where it leases surplus land not currently utilised by the business.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their future minimum lease payments receivable are set out above.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not yet incurred at the balance sheet date is as follows: 31 December 2015 000 Amount contracted for which has not been provided 64,553 27.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement Period ended 31 December 2015 Notes 000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 94,705 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15,885 Amortisation of intangible assets 5,439 Negative goodwill on acquisition 4 124,191 Unwind of inventory fair value 4 15,977 Finance costs 7 68,943 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 1,403 Other 118 Share based payments 1,199 Deferred income 179 Post-employment benefits 1,556 77,743 Increase decrease in inventory 8,989 Decrease increase in debtors 19,543 Increase decrease in creditors 3,123 Increase decrease in provisions 147 Cash generated from operations 91,567 IBSTOCK 25 Notes 22 to 31 DRF2.
indd 121 12 04 2016 12:54 122 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Group subsidiaries Ibstock plc had the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015: Proportion of ordinary Proportion shares of ordinary held directly shares Country of by the held by the Entity Principal activity incorporation Parent Group Figgs Topco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Midco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Newco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Building Products Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Bidco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Bidco 2 Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Group Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Forticrete Ltd Manufacturer of concrete products UK 100% 100% Home Building Supplies Ltd Sale and distribution of building materials UK 100% 100% Baldwin Industries Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Anderton Concrete Products Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Oakhill Holdings Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Supreme Concrete Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Gee-Co Holdings Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Holding Company Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Ltd Brick manufacturer UK 100% 100% Ibstock Leasing Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Management Services Ltd Dormant Jersey 100% 100% Ibstock Finance Co Ltd Dormant Jersey 100% 100% Kevington Building Products Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Leicester Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Himley Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Westbrick Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Property Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Moore & Sons Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Manchester Brick & Precast Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Nostell Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Roughdales Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Cattybrook Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Hathernware Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Bricks 1996 Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Wealdbeam Systems Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Loopfire Systems Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Glen-Gery Corporation Brick manufacturer USA 100% 100% Landmark Stone Products LLC Stone manufacturer USA 100% 100% Redfield Quarry LLC Dormant USA 100% 100% The country of incorporation is the same as the place of business for all the above entities.
These companies were incorporated on 28 November 2014 with the exception of Figgs Bidco 2 Limited which was incorporated on 30January 2015.
Figgs Topco Limited is owned directly by Ibstock plc.
All other companies are indirectly owned.
indd 122 12 04 2016 12:54 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 123 All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The proportion of the voting rights in the subsidiary undertakings held directly by the Parent Company do not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held.
The Parent Company does not have any shareholdings in the preference shares of subsidiary undertakings included in the Group.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group held a 100% beneficial interest in the ordinary shares of Figgs Topco Limited, which it acquired as part of the reorganisation prior to admission onto the official list of the London Stock Exchange, which took place on 27 October 2015 see Note 1.
Legal ownership of the Figgs Topco Limiteds share capital has transferred to Ibstock plc on 9 February 2016.
Related party transactions Transaction amount for period ended December 2015 000 Purchase of services: Bain Capital Partners LLC 8,995 Diamond BC S. r. l owned a majority shareholding of the Group prior to completion of the IPO transaction.
Diamond BC S. r. l, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bain Capital Partners LLC, was therefore the immediate parent of the Group and Bain Capital Partners LLC was the ultimate parent and ultimate controlling party of the Group prior to the IPO transaction.
On 27 October 2015, its shareholding reduced to 53.03% and on 4 November 2015, its shareholding reduced to 47.03% following the exercise of an over-allotment option in respect of 24,330,000 ordinary shares.
Subsequent to 4 November 2015 and as at 31 December 2015 the Board of Directors of the Company, consider, based on the facts and circumstances, that Diamond BC S. r. l has significant influence over, but does not control the Group.
The shareholder loan notes held by the Group during the period Note 7 which were owed to Diamond BC S. r. l, a subsidiary of Bain Capital Partners LLC, were converted to ordinary shares.
The preference shares held by Diamond BC S. r. l and converted to ordinary shares are disclosed in Note 22.
There are no balances with Bain Capital Partners LLC at the period end date.
During the period Figgs Topco Limited issued 10,000,000 A shares to Diamond BC S. r. l wholly owned by Bain Partners LLC.
Additionally, Ibstock plc issued 50,000 ordinary shares on incorporation to Diamond BC S. r. l wholly owned by Bain Partners LLC.
A shares were converted as part of the Group reorganisation during the year.
Transactions with related parties during the period also include management subscriptions for shares of 0.6m, see Note 25 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 56 to 78.
See Note 6 for details of key management personnel remuneration.
During the period, an interest free loan totalling 346,000 was outstanding from a UK director of a UK subsidiary company that was provided for relocation purposes.
This has been paid back to the Group before year end.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities were provided for on acquisition in line with IFRS 3.
See Note 24 for further details.
There are no further contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2015.
Post balance sheet events The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial period ended 31 December 2015 of 4.4 pence per ordinary share which will distribute an estimated 17,800,000 of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 3 June 2016 to those shareholders who are on the register at 6 May 2016 subject to approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Since the balance sheet date no further subsequent events requiring further disclosure or adjustments to these financial statements have been identified.
