OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Our Operating Environment The EUTPD has been revised to include legislation to standardise Our Markets the appearance and taste of tobacco products.
The revised Globally, there are around a billion adult smokers consuming Directive came into force in May 2014 and EU Member States 6 trillion cigarettes a year and the value of the world tobacco have until May 2016 to transpose it into national law.
market is estimated at around 500 billion.
We support reasonable and proportionate regulation that is Our geographic footprint extends across many territories and we underpinned by sound evidence, including regulation that will have classified our markets to prioritise either Growth or Returns.
reduce illicit trade and youth smoking.
We also support appropriate ingredients disclosure and agree that all tobacco products should Growth Markets have large profit and or volume pools and include display written health warnings that are consistent with global selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East public health messages.
We typically have shares below 15 per cent in these markets and focus on growing share and profit.
We dont agree with regulation that bans smoking in public or private places.
Other regulation that we oppose includes plain We tend to have larger shares in Returns Markets, which include packaging, pictorial health warnings and bans on product display, Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa.
Here, vending and the use of descriptors.
we focus on generating sustainable profit, while actively managing our share.
We seek constructive dialogue with regulatory authorities and continue to vigorously oppose excessive regulation to protect The macro-economic environment has impacted consumer our business and defend the rights of our consumers.
We dont spending and cigarette volumes in some markets, and political engage lightly in legal challenges but do so when we consider it is instability in the Near East has further affected industry volumes.
necessary, such as earlier this year when we filed a legal challenge However, we have a long track record of developing our business to the UK Governments plain packaging legislation.
in challenging conditions and see many opportunities for growth across our market footprint.
Extreme measures such as plain packaging are ineffective and fuel the growth of illicit trade.
Since the introduction of plain packaging Illicit Trade in Australia in December 2012 and subsequent high tax increases, long-term overall consumption trends have not been affected while Regrettably, some 500 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed every both illicit trade and underage smoking have significantly increased.
year, depriving governments of around 30 billion in legitimate taxes.
Smuggling and counterfeiting benefits no-one except the criminals Regulating E-vapour Products involved, creating a market that is uncontrolled and unaccountable.
The global market for e-vapour products EVPs continues to As well as impacting government tax revenues, illicit trade means expand and there is growing consensus that these products children can more easily obtain tobacco products, consumers may be less risky than smoking tobacco.
are deprived of the quality and taste they associate with their favourite brands and the livelihoods of independent tobacco E-cigarettes are the most common EVPs and we are developing retailers are threatened.
our own portfolio of brands through our standalone subsidiary Fontem Ventures.
We apply stringent controls to our global network of distributors and have a dedicated team of specialists who work with The e-vapour sector requires a clear regulatory framework to governments and law enforcement agencies around the world govern the way these products are made and sold, and we to tackle illicit trade.
We also invest in systems and processes continue to engage with stakeholders to support the development to improve the security of our products and share intelligence of effective legislation.
to help disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes.
In the USA, the FDA has proposed to extend its authority to We welcome these partnership opportunities and through our include the regulation of EVPs.
engagement activities we encourage authorities to recognise both We do not make or sell heated tobacco products.
Unlike EVPs, the scale of the illicit trade problem, as well as the adverse impact these products contain tobacco and in our view should therefore that excessive regulatory and taxation policies can have.
be regulated and taxed as conventional tobacco products.
Regulating Tobacco Products Regulation of tobacco products continues to increase and is largely driven by the World Health Organization WHO, through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the FCTC, the USAs Food and Drug Administration FDA and the European Commission through the European Union Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 7
