Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report In our opinion, Inchcape plcs Company financial statements to you if, in our opinion: the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys we require for our audit: or affairs as at 31 December 2015: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the financial statements and the part of the Directors of the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement What we have audited with the accounting records and returns.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
& Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, comprise: Directors remuneration Company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015: Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Company statement of changes in equity for the year to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance then ended: and with the Companies Act 2006. the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Other Companies Act 2006 reporting explanatory information.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities set out Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law United Kingdom on page 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Consistency of other information financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Companies Act 2006 opinion ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and financial statements.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for ISAs UK & Ireland reporting no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent materially inconsistent with the information in the audited in writing.
financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com 158 158 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 14 March 2016 www.
