STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies General information These financial statements are prepared for Inchcape plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Inchcape Group the Group.
Basis of preparation These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 for all periods presented.
Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 13.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention modified for fair values in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
The Directors of Inchcape plc manage the Groups risks at a group level rather than an individual business unit or company level.
Further information on these risks and uncertainties, in the context of the Group as a whole, are included within the Group disclosures on pages 40 to 43.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, in accordance with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment details of the number and weighted average exercise price of share options, and how the fair value of goods and services received was determined IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements comparative information requirements in respect of: paragraph 73 e of IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment: paragraph 118 e of IAS 38, Intangible assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period The following paragraphs of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements: 10 d statement of cash flows 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements, 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS, 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements, 38B-D additional comparative information, 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position, 111 cash flow statement information, and 134-136 capital management disclosures IAS 7, Statement of cash flows Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures key management compensation The requirements in IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation.
Accordingly, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange and differences are taken to the income statement.
Finance costs Finance costs consist of interest payable on the Private Placement borrowing.
Costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment.
com 147 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred income tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference is due to goodwill arising on a business combination, or to an asset or liability, the initial recognition of which does not affect either taxable or accounting income.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to shareholders equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in shareholders equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle balances net.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders funds.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Share-based payments The Company operates various share-based award schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share-based awards are granted is recognised in the income statement together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The impact of any revision is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
For equity-settled share-based awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
With the exception of the Save As You Earn scheme, the vesting of all share-based awards under all schemes is solely reliant upon non-market conditions, therefore no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where an employee cancels a Save As You Earn award, the charge for that award is recognised as an expense immediately, even though the award does not vest.
Financial instruments The Companys policies on the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments under IFRS 7 are the same as those set out in the Groups accounting policies on pages 87 to 93.
148 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 148 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015
