BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Directors responsibility statement The Directors consider that this The Directors are responsible for f for the Company financial Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, preparing this Annual report, the statements, state whether applicable balanced and understandable, and Directors' Remuneration report UK Accounting Standards have provides the information necessary and the financial statements in been followed, subject to any for shareholders to assess the accordance with applicable law material departures disclosed and Company's position and performance, and regulations.
explained in the Company financial business model and strategy.
statements: and Company law requires the Directors Each of the Directors who has to prepare Group and Company f prepare the financial statements held office at the date of this financial statements for each financial on the going concern basis unless Annual report whose names and year.
Under that law they are required it is inappropriate to presume that functions are listed in the Corporate to prepare the Group financial the Group and Company will Governance section on pages 40 to statements in accordance with continue in business.
43 of this Annual report confirms IFRSs as adopted by the EU and that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for applicable law and have elected keeping adequate accounting records to prepare the Company financial f the Group financial statements, that are sufficient to show and explain statements in accordance with prepared in accordance with the Companys transactions and UK Accounting Standards.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give disclose with reasonable accuracy a true and fair view of the assets, Under company law the Directors at any time the financial position of liabilities, financial position and must not approve the financial the Company and Group and enable profit or loss of the Group: and statements unless they are satisfied them to ensure that its financial that they give a true and fair view of statements and the Directors' f the 'management report' as the state of affairs of the Group and Remuneration report comply defined in the Directors report on Company and of their profit or loss with the Companies Act 2006 page 66 includes a fair review of for that period.
In preparing each and, as regards the Group financial the development and performance of the Group and Company financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS of the business and the position statements, the Directors are Regulation.
They are also responsible of the Group together with a required to: for safeguarding the assets of the description of the principal risks Company and the Group and hence and uncertainties that it faces.
f select suitable accounting policies for taking reasonable steps for the and then apply them consistently: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
f make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the f for the Group financial statements, corporate and financial information state whether they have been included on the Group's corporate prepared in accordance with IFRSs website.
Legislation in the UK as adopted by the EU: governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
68 05 Financial statements Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 05 Financial statements Committed to delivery 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Infinis Energy plc only Opinions and conclusions arising forecast cash flows expected to be We critically assessed the from our audit generated by the landfill gas and appropriateness of the discount 1.
Our opinion on the financial wind businesses.
This depends on rate used by reference to a range statements is unmodified a series of key assumptions and of acceptable discount rates We have audited the financial estimates not all of which are in the we derived from market data.
statements of Infinis Energy plc for control of the Directors, including: We assessed the potential risk of the year ended 31 March 2015 set out the future wind speeds at the management bias in the calculations on pages 72 to 100.
In our opinion: Groups wind farms and the quality and critically assessed the of these data: the expected gas sensitivities applied by the Group.
f the financial statements give a generation at each of the Groups We considered the adequacy of true and fair view of the state landfill gas sites and the resulting the Groups disclosures in respect of the Groups and Companys production profile: the prices that of impairment testing and whether affairs as at 31 March 2015 and can be achieved for sale of this the disclosures about the sensitivity of the Groups profit for the year generation: the cost, both capital of the outcome of the impairment then ended: and operating: cost inflation: and assessment to changes in key the discount rate used to discount assumptions reflected the risks f the Group financial statements the forecast cash flows.
The output inherent in the key assumptions have been properly prepared in of the model is sensitive to the and the requirements of relevant accordance with International assumptions used and any resulting accounting standards.
Financial Reporting Standards as impairment could vary significantly adopted by the European Union We continue to perform audit depending on the assumptions IFRSs as adopted by the EU : procedures over the presentation of made by the Directors.
However, as this was f the Company financial statements f Our response Our audit addressed in detail in the previous year have been properly prepared in procedures included assessing the and GAAP measures and non-GAAP accordance with UK Accounting cash generating units identified by measures have been given similar Standards: and the Group against the requirements relative prominence this year, we have of accounting standards, taking not assessed this as one of the risks f the financial statements have been into account any business changes that had the greatest effect on our prepared in accordance with the during the year.
audit and, therefore, it is not separately requirements of the Companies Act identified in our report this year.
2006 and, as regards the Group We further challenged the Group's financial statements, Article 4 of 3.
Our application of materiality and determination of impairment the IAS Regulation.
an overview of the scope of our audit triggers attributable to these The materiality for the Group financial cash generating units.
Our assessment of risks of statements as a whole was set at the integrity of the cash flow material misstatement 5.1 million, determined with reference projections and challenged the In arriving at our audit opinion above to a benchmark of Group revenue appropriateness of key assumptions on the financial statements, the risks of which it represents 2.0%.
We used in preparing those projections of material misstatement that had the consider revenue to be the most including energy prices, expected greatest effect on our audit were appropriate benchmark as it provides gas generation and future wind as follows: a more stable measure year-on-year speeds derived from historical data, than Group profit before taxation sales volumes and operating costs.
Goodwill, Intangible assets and given the high operational gearing We evaluated these projections Property, plant and equipment of the Group.
and assumptions by reference 878.0 million to our knowledge of the industry Refer to page 50 Audit Committee We report to the Audit Committee and assessed the potential risk of report, pages 76 to 77 accounting any corrected and uncorrected management bias.
For externally estimates, judgments and policies misstatements exceeding 255,000 derived inputs we assessed the and pages 86 to 87 financial in addition to other identified reasonableness of the Directors disclosures.
misstatements that warranted assumptions by reference to reporting on qualitative grounds.
f The risk The deterioration in external forecasts principally energy prices over the last year, by comparing projected energy The Group and all of its components coupled with the depletion of prices against external regulatory are based at one location, being the gas at sites from which the reports, and we compared expected Groups Head Office, with a common Group generates and generation generation data to a third party accounting system and common uncertainty arising from difficulties external expert engaged by the control environment.
Accordingly, in forecasting wind speeds results Group.
For internally derived inputs, the audits of the Group and all of in the risk of impairment of the we compared operating expense the 12 significant components were Groups goodwill, intangibles, and forecasts to the historical operating performed by the Group audit team.
The expenses and we assessed the These audits covered 92% of total Group used a value in use model to accuracy of historical underlying Group revenue, 80% of the total profit derive the net present value of the forecasts to historical generation and losses that made up the Group's and sales data.
profit before taxation, and 76% of total Group assets.
70 05 Financial statements Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 The audits undertaken for Group f the Audit Committee report does responsibilities, published on our reporting purposes at significant not appropriately address matters website at www.
com uk components of the Group were communicated by us to the Audit auditscopeukco2014a, which are all performed to materiality levels Committee.
incorporated into this report as if set by the group audit team.
set out in full and should be read Under the Companies Act 2006 These materiality levels were set to provide an understanding of the we are required to report to you if, individually for each component purpose of this report, the work we in our opinion: and ranged from 52,000 to have undertaken and the basis of 4,580,000. our opinions.
f adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 4.
Our opinion on other matters Ian Griffiths Company, or returns adequate for prescribed by the Companies Act Senior Statutory Auditor our audit have not been received 2006 is unmodified for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, from branches not visited by us: or In our opinion: Statutory Auditor f the Company financial statements f the part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited 15 Canada Square Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in London E14 5GL are not in agreement with the accordance with the Companies accounting records and returns: or 28 May 2015 Act 2006: f certain disclosures of Directors f the information given in the remuneration specified by law Strategic report and Directors are not made: or report for the financial year for which the financial statements f we have not received all the are prepared is consistent with information and explanations the financial statements: and we require for our audit: or f the information given in the f a Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report Statement has not been prepared set out on pages 44 to 48 with by the Company.
respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation Under the Listing Rules we are to financial reporting processes required to review: and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial f the Directors statement, set out statements.
on page 66, in relation to going concern: and 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we f the part of the Corporate are required to report by exception Governance report on pages 44 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are to 48 relating to the Companys required to report to you if, based on compliance with the ten provisions the knowledge we acquired during of the UK Corporate Governance our audit, we have identified other Code 2012 specified for our review.
information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with We have nothing to report in respect either that knowledge or the financial of the above responsibilities.
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the In particular, we are required to report Directors Responsibilities Statement to you if: set out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation f we have identified material of the financial statements and for inconsistencies between the being satisfied that they give a true knowledge we acquired during our and fair view.
A description of the audit and the Directors statement scope of an audit of financial that they consider that the annual statements is provided on the report and financial statements Financial Reporting Councils website taken as a whole is fair, balanced at www.
and understandable and provides This report is made solely to the the information necessary for Companys members as a body and shareholders to assess the Groups is subject to important explanations performance, business model and and disclaimers regarding our strategy: or 71
