FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Informa PLC the Company is a Company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered number is 08860726.
The address of the registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 91.
The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2015 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures together referred to as the Group.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa PLC.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on page 21.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold areincluded in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises significant influence, usually from 20%50% of the equity voting rights, in respect of the financial and operating policy.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures or associates since the acquisition date.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities, full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
Joint operations arise where there is a joint arrangement in which the Group is one of the parties that has joint control of the arrangement and has rights to the assets, and obligation for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This typically arises when the joint arrangement is not structured through a separate legal entity.
The Group accounts for its share of joint operations under the proportional consolidation method, where it recognises its share of the joint operations assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
108 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The income statement results are translated at an average exchange rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries and other asset purchases that are assessed as meeting the definition of a business under the rules of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
REVENUE Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income for online services, information and journals is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the subscription.
Revenue from Exhibitions, trade shows, conferences and learning events is recognised when the event is held, with advance receipts recognised as deferred income in the Balance Sheet.
Unit sales revenue is recognised on the sale of books and related publications when title passes.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the related publication or over the period of the advertising subscription.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PENSION COSTS AND PENSION SCHEME ARRANGEMENTS Certain Group companies operate Defined Contribution Pension Schemes for employees.
The assets of the Schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these Schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when incurred.
The Group also operates funded Defined Benefit Schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
There is no service cost due to the fact that these Schemes are closed to future accrual.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the opening net defined benefit liability or asset and shown in finance costs, and the administration costs are shown as a component of operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Groups Defined Benefit Schemes.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the Schemes or reductions in future contributions to the Schemes.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at date of grant.
Anexpense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate.
For awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP where the proportion of the award is dependent on the level of Total Shareholder Return the fair value is measured using a Monte Carlo model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For awards issued under ShareMatch the fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability is recognised over the period of service, with the fair value re-measured at each reporting date, with any changes recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Own shares are deducted in arriving at total equity and represent the cost of the Companys Ordinary Shares acquired by the Employee Share Trust EST in connection with the Groups employee share schemes.
INTEREST INCOME Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
110 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset atcost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Anyimpairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting inan adjustment to goodwill.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, as defined by the Executive Directors for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the CGU compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimates the discount rates as the risk adjusted cost of capital for the particular CGUs.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For intangible assets acquired in business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 16.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: 1 Book lists 20 years 1 Journal titles 20 years Customer relationship database and intellectual property 320 years 2 Large scale events and Exhibitions 320 years Software 310 years Or licence period if shorter.
2 Included in this intangible asset category are the value of Brands, customer relationships and non-compete agreements.
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and other direct costs for employees who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and available for use.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Product development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costsand other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: An asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell.
It is technically feasible to complete the development of the asset for use or sale.
It is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefit.
The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided towrite off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful livesof the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 315 years Freehold land is not depreciated The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is anyindication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset isestimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
INVENTORY Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing theinventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Pre-publication costs are included in inventory, representing costs incurred in the origination of content prior to publication.
These are expensed systematically reflecting the expected sales profile over the estimated economic lives of the related products.
LEASING Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership tothe lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Lease incentives where received from the lessor are treated as a reduction in lease rentals and spread over the term of the lease.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
112 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-for-sale investments.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 days, and observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY INSTRUMENTS ISSUED BY THE GROUP Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BORROWINGS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
NET DEBT Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents inclusive of bank overdrafts, borrowings and other loan receivables where these are interest bearing and do not relate to deferred consideration arrangements.
FINANCE COSTS Debt issue costs are capitalised and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
TRADE PAYABLES Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest ratemethod.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Thederivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition ofa non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
114 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets orcurrent liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 28.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will berequired to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: EU Account Directive SI 2015 980 Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies or had any other material impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Other amendments to IFRSs effective for the year ending 31December 2015 have no impact on the Group.
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet effected At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied inthese financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 9: Financial Instruments not yet EU endorsed IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers not yet EU endorsed IFRS 16: Leases not yet EU endorsed Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception not yet EU endorsed Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture not yet EU endorsed Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations endorsed by EU Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative endorsed by EU Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation endorsed by EU Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements endorsed by EU Annual improvements to IFRSs 20122014 cycle endorsed by EU 115 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet effected continued The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact onthefinancial statements of the Group, except for the following: IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting for financial assets and financial liabilities and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 is a new standard, based on a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue recognition standards.
Thestandards requirements will also apply to the recognition and measurement of gains and losses on the sale of certain nonfinancial assets that are not an output of the entitys ordinary activities e. g. sales of property, plant and equipment or intangibles.
Adoption of the new standard is likely tohave an impact on the Group and management is currently assessing the impact.
IFRS 16 is a new leasing standard replacing the current leasing standard IAS 17.
The new standard requires all leases to be treated in a consistent way to the current rules on finance leases, requiring all leases, with limited exceptions, to be disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
IFRS 16 does not require a lessee to recognise assets or liabilities for short-term leases 12 months or less orlow value leases.
The most significant effect of the new requirements will be an increase in lease assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 16 changes the nature of expenses related to those leases, replacing the straight line operating lease expense with adepreciation charge for the lease asset included within operating costs and an interest expense on the lease liability included within finance costs.
The new standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
Adoption of thenew standard is likely to have an impact on the Group and management is yet to assess the impact.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS In addition to the judgement taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Impairment of assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in which we operate and future forecasts.
For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
When there are changes in the business structure, management judgement is required in identifying any changes to the identification of CGUs.
There are a number of assumptions management has considered in performing impairment reviews of assets: Note 15 details the assumptions that have been applied.
The determination of whether assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each CGU and determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Identification of intangible assets acquired in business combinations There are significant judgements involved in assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations, in particular the amount attributed to separate intangible assets such as titles, Brands, acquired customer lists and the associated customer relationships.
These judgements impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisitions.
The fair values of assets recognised are based on recognised valuation techniques built, in part, on assumptions around the future performance of the business: see Note 16.
The Group has built considerable knowledge of these valuation techniques but notwithstanding this, for major acquisitions, defined as when consideration is over 50m, management considers the advice of third party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
116 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Recoverability of long-term receivables The Group has a number of external receivables which are repayable over the next two to five years, mostly vendor loan notes receivable in relation to disposed businesses.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial success of the counterparties over the coming years.
In making its judgement in respect of recoverability, management assesses for each significant loan receivable whether a credit risk provision is required.
Adjusted results Management presents adjusted results and adjusted Earnings Per Share Note 7 to provide additional useful information on underlying performance and trends to Shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
Adjusted results exclude items that are common across the Media sector: amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets relating to businesses acquired and other intangible asset purchases, costs of acquisition charged tothe Consolidated Income Statement, profits or loss on disposal of businesses, restructuring costs and other non-recurring items that in the opinion ofthe Directors would distort underlying results.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRSs, and may not therefore be comparable to similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
Refer to Note 7 for details of adjusting items recorded for the year.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised intheperiod in which the estimate is revised.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, management is required tomake estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
Associated with this is deferred tax on these intangibles.
Thesemethodologies include the use of discounted cash flows and revenue forecasts.
For major acquisitions, defined as when consideration is over 50m, management considers the advice of third party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is recognised initially based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 17 and discounted appropriately to fair value.
However, any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Payments made to former owners are assessed to consider if these represent consideration related to the acquisition or remuneration for services provided in the post-acquisition period.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management has considered which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate, the rates of increase in salaries and pensions and mortality assumptions.
Note 34 details the assumptions which have been adopted based on the advice received from independent actuaries.
4 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Subscriptions 461.3 464.8 Unit sales 254.0 215.4 Attendees 156.6 167.6 Exhibitors 241.7 194.4 Sponsorship 77.0 73.0 Advertising 21.6 21.8 Total revenue 1,212.2 1,137.0 117 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 5 BUSINESS SEGMENTS BUSINESS SEGMENTS Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Executive Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
The Groups four identified reporting segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows: Academic Publishing The Academic Publishing Division provides books and journals, both in print and electronic formats, primarily for academic and research users, in the subject areas of Humanities & Social Sciences, and Science, Technology & Medicine.
It operates as Taylor & Francis with other imprints including Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent OA.
Business Intelligence The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data-driven intelligence and insight to professionals in niche communities.
The digital subscription products consist of rich datasets and valuable insight, across the Agricultural, Financial, Maritime, Pharmaceutical, and Telecoms, Media & Technology sectors.
Global Exhibitions The Global Exhibitions Division is an international Exhibitions organiser.
It operates business to business Exhibitions and trade shows, as well as a number of consumer events, enabling specialist communities to meet face to face and conduct business.
Knowledge & Networking The Knowledge & Networking Division provides conferences and training courses globally.
It creates and connects communities based on the sharing of insights and learning, providing attendees with the opportunity to meet, network and share knowledge.
SEGMENT REVENUE AND RESULTS 31 December 2015 Academic Business Global Knowledge & Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Total m m m m m Revenue Note 4 447.4 276.8 262.5 225.5 1,212.2 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures 164.8 63.2 98.1 39.6 365.7 Adjusted share of results of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Adjusted operating profit 164.8 63.2 98.0 39.6 365.6 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 7 3.3 3.7 1.4 5.3 13.7 Acquisition and integration costs Note 7 0.8 1.4 0.1 2.3 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 16 44.4 16.1 28.7 10.3 99.5 Impairment Note 7 1.1 12.8 13.9 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 7 0.2 0.5 0.3 Operating profit 116.3 42.1 67.0 11.1 236.5 Profit on disposal of businesses Note 19 9.1 Finance costs Note 11 30.6 Investment income Note 10 4.7 Profit before tax 219.7 1 Excludes intangible product development and software amortisation.
118 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 31 December 2014 Academic Business Global Knowledge & 1 Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Total m m m m m Revenue Note 4 408.9 281.7 200.2 246.2 1,137.0 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures 150.0 75.2 67.4 41.5 334.1 Adjusted share of results of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Adjusted operating profit 150.0 75.2 67.3 41.5 334.0 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 7 2.5 10.5 3.0 4.7 20.7 Acquisition and integration costs Note 7 1.0 3.7 4.7 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 16 40.2 16.2 20.9 16.6 93.9 Impairment Note 7 205.3 13.7 219.0 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 7 1.6 1.6 1.8 1.8 Adjusting items relating to share of result of joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Operating profit loss 106.3 155.2 24.1 22.0 2.8 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 19 2.8 Finance costs Note 11 29.2 Investment income Note 10 3.6 Loss before tax 31.2 1 Excludes intangible product development and software amortisation.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Executive Directors for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central Treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
SEGMENT ASSETS 2015 2014 m m Academic Publishing 1,114.4 1,025.3 Business Intelligence 761.7 791.6 Global Exhibitions 718.6 691.4 Knowledge & Networking 374.3 360.2 Total segment assets 2,969.0 2,868.5 Unallocated assets 90.8 50.4 Total assets 3,059.8 2,918.9 For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for certain centrally held balances, including some intangible software assets relating to Group infrastructure, balances receivable from businesses sold andtaxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segment.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 5 BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Academic Publishing Subscriptions 216.4 218.6 Unit sales 231.0 190.3 Total Academic Publishing 447.4 408.9 Business Intelligence Subscriptions 244.9 246.2 Unit sales 23.0 25.1 Advertising 8.9 10.4 Total Business Intelligence 276.8 281.7 Global Exhibitions Attendees 33.1 20.1 Exhibitors 199.2 157.5 Sponsorship 23.3 16.2 Advertising 6.9 6.4 Total Global Exhibitions 262.5 200.2 Knowledge & Networking Attendees 123.5 147.5 Exhibitors 42.5 36.9 Sponsorship 53.7 56.8 Advertising 5.8 5.0 Total Knowledge & Networking 225.5 246.2 Total revenue 1,212.2 1,137.0 120 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographic location are detailed below: Revenue Segment assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 Geographic information m m m m UK 143.1 149.0 1,229.7 1,130.2 North America 511.5 416.4 1,495.9 1,369.0 Continental Europe 215.5 235.1 54.7 77.3 Rest of World 342.1 336.5 279.5 342.4 1,212.2 1,137.0 3,059.8 2,918.9 No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups revenue in either 2015 or 2014.
6 OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Notes m m m m m m 1 Cost of sales 377.6 377.6 367.2 367.2 Staff costs excluding adjusting redundancy costs 8 333.6 333.6 319.9 319.9 Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 12.8 99.5 112.3 12.1 93.9 106.0 Depreciation 6.1 6.1 6.1 6.1 Impairment Goodwill 7 13.9 13.9 193.4 193.4 Impairment Intangibles 7 11.1 11.1 Impairment Loan receivable 7 14.5 14.5 Net foreign exchange loss 1.9 1.9 0.8 0.8 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.3 1.3 1.0 1.0 Operating lease expenses Land and buildings 32 18.1 18.1 17.6 17.6 Other 32 1.3 1.3 1.0 1.0 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 7 13.7 13.7 20.7 20.7 Acquisition-related costs 7 2.3 2.3 4.7 4.7 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 0.3 0.3 1.8 1.8 Other operating expenses 93.8 93.8 77.2 77.2 Total net operating expenses before joint ventures 846.5 129.1 975.6 802.9 336.5 1,139.4 1 Cost of sales includes 45.9m 2014: 36.6m for inventory recognised as an expense including pre-publication amortisation.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 6 OPERATING PROFIT CONTINUED Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP, and its associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is provided below: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financialstatements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.4 0.3 Total audit fees 1.1 1.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.3 0.4 Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.5 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Governance section on pages 76 to 79 and includes an explanation ofhow auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
7 ADJUSTING ITEMS The following charges credits are presented as adjusting items: 2015 2014 Notes m m Redundancy and restructuring costs Redundancy costs 11.4 14.2 Reorganisation costs 0.4 2.1 Vacant property costs 1.9 1.5 Re-domicile costs 2.9 Acquisition and integration costs 6 2.3 4.7 Intangible amortisation and impairment Intangible asset amortisation 16 99.5 93.9 Impairment Goodwill 15 13.9 193.4 Impairment Other intangible assets 16 11.1 Impairment Loan receivable 22 14.5 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 6 0.3 1.8 Adjusting items in operating profit loss before joint ventures 129.1 336.5 Adjusting items relating to share of results of joint ventures 18 0.3 Adjusting items in operating profit loss 129.1 336.8 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 19 9.1 2.8 Debt issue costs write off on early repayment of revolving credit facility 11 1.2 Adjusting items in profit loss before tax 120.0 340.8 Tax related to adjusting items 12 13.2 27.1 Tax credit in respect of prior year items 12 11.6 Adjusting items in profit loss for the year 106.8 302.1 122 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The principal adjustments made are in respect of: redundancy, reorganisation and vacant property costs these are costs incurred by the Group business restructuring and changingthe operating model to align with the Groups revised strategy, the Growth Acceleration Plan: acquisition and integration costs the costs incurred by the Group in acquiring and integrating share and asset acquisitions: intangible asset amortisation the amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets acquired through business combinations orthe acquisition of trade and assets is excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading: impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
Impairment chargesare individually disclosed and are excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading: subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the period as a charge or credit to the Consolidated Income Statement unless these qualify as measurement period adjustments arising within one year from the acquisition date.
They are excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading: profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations the profit on disposal includes the fair value of consideration less the netassets liabilities disposed, non-controlling interest and costs directly attributable with the disposal: early repayment fee relating to the revolving credit facility capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where revolving credit facilities have been terminated early, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of the underlying results and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: share of results of joint ventures the share of results includes intangible asset amortisation and impairment charge related to joint ventures, which is excluded from adjusted results in line with the presentation of the Groups intangible asset amortisation and treatment of impairment: and the tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above, and any significant tax items are excluded from underlying results.
The tax credit in respect of prior year items is mainly attributable to adjustments relating to historical disposals.
8 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by segment, was asfollows: Number of employees 2015 2014 Academic Publishing 2,062 1,927 Business Intelligence 2,093 2,146 Global Exhibitions 878 782 Knowledge & Networking 1,537 1,797 6,570 6,652 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 293.6 282.5 Social security costs 27.9 27.1 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 34 9.2 8.6 Share-based payment Note 9 2.6 1.7 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 333.3 319.9 Redundancy costs Note 7 11.4 14.2 344.7 334.1 123 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 8 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS CONTINUED The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 37.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors isprovided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 86.
2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.3 2.7 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Share-based payment 0.7 0.6 4.3 3.6 9 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group LTIPs provide for a grant price equal to the closing share price from the day prior to the grant date.
The performance period is three years starting with the year in which the grant is made.
LTIP awards are conditional share awards with specific performance conditions.
To the extent they are met or satisfied then awards will vest following the end of the relevant performance period.
LTIP allocations are equity-settled and will lapse if the employee leaves the Group before an LTIP grant vests, unless the employee meets certain eligibility criteria.
The Group recognised total expenses of 2.9m 2014: 1.7m related to share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31December 2015 with 2.4m 2014: 1.7m relating to equity-settled LTIPs, 0.2m 2014: nil relating to equity-settled ShareMatch and 0.3m 2014: nil relating to cash settled time-based awards.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The 2015 LTIP award was granted on 13 February 2015.
The performance conditions of the 2015 LTIP awards to Executive Directors were relative TSR TSR for FTSE 51150 constituents excluding financial services and commodities and EPS CAGR.
The 2014 LTIP award was granted on 5 September 2014.
The performance conditions of the 2014 LTIP awards were relative TSR equally split between two peer groups: i the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index, excluding Investment Trusts, and ii the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Media Index and Personal Strategic Measures.
Further details are set out in pages 84 to 90 in the remuneration section of this report.
The 2013 LTIP award was granted on 7 March 2013 and 1 September 2013.
The performance conditions of the 2013 LTIP awards to Executive Directors were based on relative TSR.
These were equally split between TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index, excluding Investment Trusts, and TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Media Index.
The movement during the year is as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at 1 January 1,953,149 2,540,718 LTIPs exercised in the year LTIPs lapsed in the year 687,375 1,370,006 LTIPs granted in the year 1,045,695 782,437 Outstanding at 31 December 2,311,469 1,953,149 124 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The TSR award components were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model for the LTIP performance conditions are: Annual Share price Exercise Expected Expected Risk dividend 1 Date of grant at grant date price volatility life years free rate yield 7 March 2013 5.13 n a 27.0% 3 0.3% 4.2% 1 September 2013 5.09 n a 27.0% 3 0.3% 4.2% 8 September 2014 5.18 n a 20.0% 3 0.9% 3.7% 13 February 2015 5.29 n a 21.0% 3 0.8% 3.4% 1 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
In order to satisfy share awards granted under LTIPs, the share capital would be increased by up to 1,574,197 shares 2014: 1,215,877 shares taking account of the shares held in the EST Note 30.
The Company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy the shares as needed on the open market.
The weighted average share price during the year was 5.65 2014: 4.99.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
SHAREMATCH SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN In June 2014, the Company launched ShareMatch, a global Share Incentive Plan tax qualifying in the UK, under which eligible employees can invest up to the limit of 1,800 per annum out of net salary gross salary in the UK in the Companys shares.
The scheme includes a matching element, whereby for every two shares purchased, the Company will award the participant one matching share.
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if the purchased shares are withdrawn from the scheme within three years of purchase or if the employee leaves the Group.
In addition, both the purchased and matching shares are eligible to receive any dividends payable by the Company, which are reinvested in more shares.
Employee subscriptions can be made on a monthly or one-off, lump sum basis and matching shares are purchased on a monthly basis, through a UK Trust.
Further details are set out on page 85 of the remuneration section of the financial statements.
2015 2014 ShareMatch ShareMatch Number of Number of share awards share awards Outstanding at 1 January 36,435 Exercised in the year Lapsed in the year 5,203 339 Granted in the year 78,497 36,774 Outstanding at 31 December 109,729 36,435 125 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 10 INVESTMENT INCOME 2015 2014 Notes m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 0.7 0.5 Interest income on non-current receivables 22 4.0 3.1 4.7 3.6 11 FINANCE COSTS 2015 2014 Notes m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 30.1 27.8 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 34 0.3 0.2 Total interest expense 30.4 28.0 Debt issue cost write off on early repayment of revolving credit facility 7 1.2 Fair value loss on financial instruments through the income statement 0.2 30.6 29.2 12 TAXATION The tax charge comprises: 2015 2014 Notes m m Current tax: UK 19.3 24.9 US 6.3 0.6 UAE and Monaco 1.0 0.3 Rest of World 6.0 7.6 Current year 32.6 33.4 Tax credit in respect of prior year items presented as adjusting item 8.2 Deferred tax: Current year 26 14.4 2.4 Tax credit in respect of prior year items presented as adjusting item 26 3.4 Credit arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 26 0.4 Total tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 47.0 19.8 126 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The tax on adjusting items within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: 1 Gross Tax Gross Tax 2015 2015 2014 2014 Notes m m m m Redundancy and restructuring costs 7 16.0 3.1 25.4 5.5 Amortisation of other intangible assets 7 99.5 17.7 93.9 25.6 Benefit of US goodwill amortisation for tax purposes only 7.4 4.3 Impairment 7 13.9 219.0 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 0.3 0.2 1.8 0.4 Profit loss on disposal of businesses 19 9.1 2.8 Debt issue costs write off on early repayment of revolving credit facility 11 1.2 0.3 Adjusted items relating to share of results of joint ventures 18 0.3 Deferred tax charge credit arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 26 0.4 Tax credit in respect of prior year items 7 11.6 120.0 13.2 340.8 38.7 1 The tax charge on adjusted profits is now stated after the benefit of goodwill amortisation for tax purposes only in the US which was previously taken in arriving at adjusted profits after taxation.
There is no impact on the total charge for the year.
The tax credit on adjusting items was previously stated at 43.0m for 2014 and the effect of this change was to reduce the tax credit on adjusting items by 4.3m.
The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated on each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2015 2014 m % m % Profit loss before tax 219.7 31.2 Tax credit charge at effective UK statutory rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 44.5 20.2 6.7 21.5 Non-deductible impairments 2.9 1.3 51.6 165.4 Other non-deductible expenses and similar items 6.3 2.9 6.8 21.8 Profits taxed at different rates 3.3 1.5 5.6 17.9 Benefits from financing structures 8.2 3.7 11.1 35.6 Tax incentives and foreign tax credits 3.4 1.5 7.2 23.1 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not been recognised 1.6 0.7 3.2 10.3 Deferred tax credit arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.4 1.3 Tax credit in respect of prior year items presented as adjusting item 11.6 37.2 Tax charge and effective rate for the year 47.0 21.4 19.8 63.5 In addition to the income tax charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax charge of 1.2m 2014: credit of 1.8m has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 13 DIVIDENDS 2015 2014 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 12.5p per share 75.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.4p per share 38.6 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 12.9p per share 83.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 6.55p per share 42.5 126.1 114.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 13.55p per share 2014: 12.9p per share 87.8 83.7 As at 31 December 2015 0.1m 2014: 0.1m of dividends are still to be paid.
As at 31 December 2015 the shares held by the EST of737,272 2014: 737,272 Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each waived their rights to receive dividends.
14 EARNINGS PER SHARE BASIC The basic EPS calculation is based on a profit attributable to equity Shareholders of the parent of 171.4m 2014: 52.4m loss.
This profit on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those non-vested shares held by the EST, which is 648,203,977 2014: 608,258,772.
DILUTED The diluted EPS calculation is based on the basic EPS calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 648,660,616 2014: 608,309,328.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: 2015 2014 Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS calculation 648,203,977 608,258,772 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 456,639 50,556 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted EPS calculation 648,660,616 608,309,328 128 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS EARNINGS PER SHARE The basic and diluted adjusted EPS calculations have been made to provide additional useful information on the underlying performance.
Profits are based on operations attributable to equity Shareholders and are adjusted to exclude items that in the opinion of the Directors would distort underlying results with these items detailed in Note 7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE: Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2015 2015 2014 2014 m Pence m Pence Profit loss for the year 172.7 51.0 Non-controlling interest 1.3 1.4 Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS Basic EPS 171.4 26.4 52.4 8.6 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares Earnings for the purpose of diluted EPS Diluted EPS 171.4 26.4 52.4 8.6 ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE: Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 1 1 2015 2015 2014 2014 m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 171.4 26.4 52.4 8.6 Adjusting items: Redundancy and restructuring costs Note 7 16.0 2.5 25.4 4.2 Intangible amortisation and impairment Note 7 113.4 17.5 312.9 51.4 Profit loss on disposal and other adjusting items Note 7 9.4 1.5 2.5 0.4 Add back tax on adjusting items Note 7 13.2 2.0 38.7 6.4 Earnings for the purpose of adjusted EPS 278.2 42.9 249.7 41.0 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares Earnings for the purpose of adjusted diluted EPS 278.2 42.9 249.7 41.0 1 2014 adjusting items net of attributable taxation have been restated as described in Note 12.
The 2014 adjusted basic and diluted EPS was 40.3p before the effect of this restatement.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 15 GOODWILL m Cost At 1 January 2014 1,666.2 Adjustment for re-measurement of prior year acquisitions 9.4 Disposal 3.8 Additions in the year 322.4 Exchange differences 27.1 At 1 January 2015 as previously reported 2,002.5 1 Adjustment for re-measurement of prior year acquisition 82.0 At 1 January 2015 as restated 1,920.5 Additions in the year 35.8 2 Disposals 150.2 Exchange differences 18.2 At 31 December 2015 1,824.3 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2014 68.3 Disposal 3.8 Impairment losses for the year Note 7 193.4 Exchange differences 4.3 At 1 January 2015 253.6 Impairment losses for the year Note 7 13.9 2 Disposals Note 19 150.0 Exchange differences 2.8 At 31 December 2015 114.7 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 1,709.6 1 At 31 December 2014 as restated 1,666.9 1 The restatement of goodwill relates to the finalisation of our valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets of the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition completed in 2014 together with the elimination of goodwill and prior impairment on disposals in prior year.
This resulted in a reduction in goodwill totalling 82.0m, offset by an increase of 116.4m in intangible assets and a 34.4m increase in deferred tax liabilities.
2 Included within disposals is fully amortised goodwill written off of 150.0m.
IMPAIRMENT REVIEW As goodwill is not amortised, it is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
The testing involves comparing the carrying value of assets in each CGU with value in use calculations derived from latestmanagement cash flowprojections.
In 2015 there was impairment of goodwill totalling 13.9m, with a charge of 1.1m in Business Intelligence relating to the Telecoms, Media & Technology TMT CGU and 12.8m in Knowledge & Networking relating tothe International events CGU 2014:193.4m total goodwill impairment, with 189.0m in Business Intelligence and 4.4m in GlobalExhibitions.
130 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS In 2015 the number of CGUs has remained at 21 2014: 21.
For reporting purposes, the CGUs have been aggregated into four reportable segments which each have their own Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major groups of CGUs is set out below: CGU GROUPS 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number of CGUs Number of CGUs m m Academic Publishing 1 1 477.2 440.6 Business Intelligence 5 6 591.6 584.7 Global Exhibitions 7 8 361.4 360.1 Knowledge & Networking 8 6 279.4 281.5 21 21 1,709.6 1,666.9 During the year the Knowledge & Networking Division underwent a reorganisation of its Divisional structure to bring more of an industry sector focus to the division.
As part of this restructure, new CGUs had been determined within this division in the year.
The movements in the carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange movements and other internal reclassifications arising when acquisition intangible valuations are completed.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined as the greater of the value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, which are based on the cash flow projections foreach CGU.
The key assumptions are those regarding the revenue and operating margin growth rates together with the long-term growth rate and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to the latest budget and forecasts for the next five years after which a long-term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budget approved by the Board of Directors has been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for managements estimates of future performance.
Long-term market growth rates Pre-tax discount rates Key assumptions 2015 2014 2015 2014 Academic Publishing 2.4% 3.0% 10.3% 10.5% Business Intelligence 2.02.4% 2.0% 10.111.4% 10.5% Global Exhibitions 2.03.5% 3.0% 8.314.4% 11.5% Knowledge & Networking 1.82.4% 2.0% 10.211.5% 11.5% During the year, the pre-tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations reflect the Groups assessment of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs.
Long-term growth rates are applied after the forecast period of five years and do not exceed the long-term average growth prospects for the markets in which the CGUs operate.
Long-term growth rates are sourced from an external study of long-term inflation rates for each CGU.
Management has undertaken a sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1.0%: and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 0.5% for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that there would be an impairment of 5.9m in TMT which sits within the Business Intelligence Division when applying the 1.0% increase in pre-tax discount rate sensitivity, and an impairment of 2.0m in TMT when applying the 0.5% decrease in terminal growth rate sensitivity.
When applying the above criteria combined, an impairment of 7.6m would arise in TMT, 4.4m in Pharma & Healthcare, and 0.8m in Agra: all within the Business Intelligence Division.
For the other CGUs, no additional impairments would result from the scenarios tested in our sensitivity analysis.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 16 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Business Information Customer Exhibtions relationship and Publishing database conferences Book lists and Brand and Intangible and Journal intellectual customer Subsoftware Product 4 titles property relationships total assets development Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 685.2 550.6 262.5 1,498.3 117.6 16.1 1,632.0 Arising on acquisitions in the year 15.7 51.3 67.0 0.1 67.1 Adjustment to prior yearacquisitions 0.4 9.8 9.4 9.4 1,2 Additions 6.4 10.4 16.8 8.3 1.7 26.8 3 Disposals 0.2 3.7 3.9 45.2 49.1 Reclassification 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 20.2 16.9 2.1 39.2 1.8 0.8 41.8 At 1 January 2015 as previouslyreported 727.3 567.1 332.4 1,626.8 82.6 18.4 1,727.8 Adjustment for re-measurement 5 of prior year acquisition Note 15 116.4 116.4 116.4 At 1 January 2015 as restated 727.3 567.1 448.8 1,743.2 82.6 18.4 1,844.2 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and operations in the year 32.1 17.4 49.5 49.5 1,2, 3 Additions 33.8 0.1 78.7 112.6 23.2 3.5 139.3 4 Disposals Note 19 89.8 2.7 92.5 3.0 0.5 96.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 1.0 1.0 Reclassification Note 20 0.9 0.9 Exchange differences 20.2 14.5 7.1 27.6 1.7 0.8 30.1 At 31 December 2015 813.4 491.9 535.1 1,840.4 104.4 22.2 1,967.0 Amortisation At 1 January 2014 222.7 396.4 148.0 767.1 80.8 5.1 853.0 Charge for the year 40.1 28.0 25.8 93.9 10.3 1.8 106.0 Impairment losses for the year Note 7 2.8 8.3 11.1 11.1 Disposals 0.2 1.3 1.5 44.9 46.4 Exchange differences 7.5 12.4 2.3 22.2 0.8 0.3 23.3 132 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Business Information Customer Exhibtions relationship and Publishing database conferences Book lists and Brand and Intangible and Journal intellectual customer Subsoftware Product 4 titles property relationships total assets development Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 270.1 439.6 183.1 892.8 47.0 7.2 947.0 Charge for the year 44.5 23.0 32.0 99.5 10.6 2.2 112.3 Impairment losses for the year Note 7 4 Disposals Note 19 74.2 2.7 76.9 2.5 0.1 79.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.7 0.7 Reclassification 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 7.9 11.2 0.8 18.3 0.9 0.4 19.6 At 31 December 2015 322.5 399.6 211.6 933.7 55.4 9.7 998.8 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 490.9 92.3 323.5 906.7 49.0 12.5 968.2 6 At 31 December 2014 as restated 457.2 127.5 265.7 850.4 35.6 11.2 897.2 1 Additions includes business asset additions in Book lists and Journal titles, Database and Intellectual Property, Exhibitions and Conferences, andIntangible software assets and product development.
2 Of the 112.6m 2014: 16.8m additions to Book lists and Journal titles, Database and Intellectual Property and Exhibitions and Conferences, 92.5m 2014: 14.0m represents cash paid.
3 23.2m 2014: 8.3m additions to Intangible software assets and 3.5m 2014: 1.7m additions to product development represents cash paid.
All research and development activity during the year met capitalisation criteria and was capitalised as additions.
4 Included in disposals for the year are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
5 As restated for the finalisation of our valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets of the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition completed in 2014: see Note 15 for details.
6 All product development in 2015 and 2014 is internally generated.
Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 90.0m 2014: 70.2m and accumulated amortisation of 46.0m 2014:39.0m which relate to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 17 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CASH PAID ON ACQUISITION NET OF CASH ACQUIRED 2015 2014 Segment m m Current period acquisitions WS Maney & Son Limited Academic Publishing 21.3 Ashgate Publishing Ltd and Inc.
Academic Publishing 19.1 Boston Biotech Conference LLC Knowledge & Networking 12.7 MegaConvention, Inc.
Global Exhibitions 7.6 Pickering & Chatto Publishers Ltd Academic Publishing 1.4 LeadersIn Knowledge & Networking 0.2 Brick Shows Limited Global Exhibitions 0.2 62.5 Prior year acquisitions 2014 acquisitions: Hanley Wood Exhibitions Global Exhibitions 0.5 239.8 Virgo Group Global Exhibitions 85.6 Provisuale Participacoes Ltda Global Exhibitions 7.2 Baiwen Global Exhibitions 2.1 Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd Global Exhibitions 2.0 Other 4.1 17.9 5.7 352.5 2013 acquisitions: Compendium Contech Lte Global Exhibitions 0.3 EBD Group Global Exhibitions 0.1 Other 1.2 0.3 1.3 20122010 acquisitions: EuroMediCom Global Exhibitions 0.3 Fertecon Limited Business Intelligence 1.5 Sagient Research Systems, Inc. Business Intelligence 0.4 Other 1.7 0.3 3.6 Total cash paid in year 68.8 357.4 In line with the Groups strategy, a number of acquisitions were made in the year.
All acquisitions were paid for in cash including settlement of deferred and contingent consideration.
The contingent consideration for our share and asset acquisitions is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available data forecasts.
The expected fair value of contingent consideration is 29.9m.
134 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ENTITY ACQUIRED Ashgate WS Maney Publishing & Son Limited Ltd and Inc. Other: Academic Academic Other: Prior 1 Segment Publishing Publishing 2015 years Total m m m m m Intangible assets 22.4 8.3 18.8 49.5 Trade and other receivables 2.0 0.5 1.2 6.4 10.1 Cash and cash equivalents 3.4 0.8 0.8 0.9 5.9 Trade and other payables 1.5 5.2 6.7 Deferred income 3.1 2.1 5.2 Deferred tax asset 6.2 6.2 Deferred tax liabilities 4.5 1.7 6.7 12.9 Net assets liabilities acquired 18.7 2.7 18.2 7.3 46.9 Goodwill 6.0 17.2 10.3 1.9 35.4 Total consideration 24.7 19.9 28.5 9.2 82.3 Less: deferred consideration 1.4 0.1 1.5 Less: contingent consideration 4.2 1.9 6.1 Less: net cash acquired 3.4 0.8 0.8 0.9 5.9 Total cash outflow 21.3 19.1 22.1 6.3 68.8 1 Prior years excludes the restatement of goodwill and intangibles arising from the finalisation of the valuation of the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2015 WS Maney & Son Limited On 19 June 2015 the Group acquired 100% shareholding in WS Maney & Son Limited.
WS Maney & Son Limited is a journal publisher specialising in Materials Science & Engineering, Humanities & Social Sciences and Health Sciences.
The company forms part of the Academic Publishing segment.
Total consideration was 24.7m which was paid in full in cash in 2015.
The net cash outflow of 21.3m reflects total cash paid of 24.7m adjusted for cash acquired with the business of 3.4m.
The disclosure above provides the net assets liabilities with related fairvalue adjustments for the acquisition.
The business contributed 0.4m loss after tax and 4.1m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2015.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 0.5m loss after tax and 8.2m to revenue of the Group.
Goodwill of 6.0m arising from the acquisition reflects growth opportunities and buyer-specific synergies.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Ashgate Publishing Limited On 16 July 2015 the Group acquired 100% shareholding in Ashgate Publishing Limited.
Ashgate Publishing Limited is a book publisher with around 14,000 book titles and publishing approximately 800 new titles annually, primarily in Humanities & Social Sciences disciplines for the academic and professional markets.
Total consideration was 19.9m of which 19.1m was paid in cash in 2015, net of cash acquired.
The disclosure above provides the net assets liabilities with the related fair value adjustments for the acquisition.
The business contributed 2.3m loss after tax and 4.7m torevenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2015.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed a 2.1m loss after tax and 10.2m to revenue of the Group.
Goodwill of 17.2m arising from the acquisition reflects growth opportunities and buyer-specific synergies.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 17 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2015 The Group acquired 100% shareholding in Boston Biotech Conference LLC, which forms part of the Knowledge & Networking segment.
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Pickering & Chatto Publishers Limited, which forms part of the AcademicPublishing segment.
The Group also acquired 100% of the issued share capital of MegaConvention, Inc. and Brick Shows Limited and 55% of Brazil Design Show, which form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The Group also acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BVO Limited trading as LeadersIn, which forms part of the Knowledge& Networking segment.
The net cash outflow from other business combinations made in 2015 was 22.1m, comprising cash consideration of 22.9m lesscash acquired of 0.8m.
During 2015, deferred and contingent consideration of 5.6m was paid.
The disclosure above provides the net liabilities assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments.
The above acquisitions contributed 0.8m to profit after tax and 3.3m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date ofacquisition and 31 December 2015.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they wouldhave contributed 0.8m to profit after tax and 3.8m to revenue of the Group.
Update on business combinations made in 2014 During the period, valuations for the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities were received for business combinations made in 2014, with the only significant adjustment relating to the acquisition of Hanley Wood Exhibitions.
During the period, the Group finalised its valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets for Hanley Wood resulting in a reduction of 82.0m to goodwill, an increase of 34.4m in deferred tax liabilities and an increase of 116.4m in intangible assets.
The intangible assets acquired are split into Trademarks 40.8m and Customer Relationships 75.6m totalling 116.4m.
During 2015, consideration payments totalling 2.1m were made to Baiwen for 2014 acquisitions, together with 0.5m of cash received relating to Hanley Wood.
During 2015, contingent consideration payments of 2.0m, 0.2m and 0.6m were paid to Futurecom, designjunction and E-Health Media respectively for 2014 acquisitions.
UPDATE ON BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2013 During 2015, a contingent consideration payment of 0.3m was paid to Compendium Contech for a 2013 acquisition.
UPDATE ON BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2012 During 2015, a contingent consideration payment of 0.3m was paid to EuroMediCom for a 2012 acquisition.
136 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 18 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES The Groups joint ventures at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Country of Class of Share incorporation shares holding Accounting Company Division and operation held interest year end Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited Business Information England and Wales Ordinary 50% 31 December SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda Global Exhibitions Brazil Ordinary 49% 31 December Independent Materials Handling ExhibitionsLimited Global Exhibitions England and Wales Ordinary 50% 31 December Informa Tharawat LLC Global Exhibitions State of Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December An analysis of changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures is set out below: 2015 2014 m m At start of year 0.2 0.6 Share of results of joint ventures 0.1 0.4 Dividends received At end of year 0.1 0.2 The following represent the aggregate 100% and Group share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures: 100% of Group 100% of Group results share results share 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m Non-current assets 0.1 Current assets 0.9 0.5 1.4 0.7 1.0 0.5 1.4 0.7 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 0.7 0.4 0.9 0.5 Net assets 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.2 Operating loss 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.2 Finance costs 0.3 0.2 Loss before tax 0.3 0.1 0.8 0.4 Tax 0.1 0.1 Loss after tax 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.4 The Group share of loss recognised in SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda has been restricted in 2015 and 2014 as the loss has onlybeen recognised to the extent that it equals the carrying value of this joint venture investment.
JOINT OPERATIONS During the year the Group acquired 50% interests to operate certain events in Egypt for 6.0m and this is included in intangible additions in the year see Note 16.
These are accounted for as joint operations with proportional consolidation of the share of operations results.
These 50% acquired events were the Pharmaconex, Mediconex, Afro Packaging & Food, Egytec and AutomechFormula.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 19 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND OPERATIONS During the year, the Group generated the following net profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations: 2015 2014 Segment m m Consumer Information businesses Business Intelligence 7.4 Conference businesses in Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands Knowledge & Networking 1.4 Corporate Training businesses 1.5 Other operations 0.3 1.3 Profit loss for the year from disposal of subsidiaries andoperations 9.1 2.8 DISPOSALS MADE IN 2015 On 27 July 2015 the Group announced, and on 1 September 2015 the Group completed, the disposal of its Consumer Information businesses for a total consideration of 25.0m, resulting in a profit on disposal of 7.4m.
The consideration consisted of 22.5m of cashreceived at completion and 2.5m of deferred proceeds.
The cash inflow in 2015 relating to this disposal, net of cash disposed, was 18.1m and disposal costs paid amounted to 1.7m.
The total net inflow of cash amounted to 16.4m.
The sale comprised its Datamonitor Financial, Datamonitor Consumer, MarketLine and Verdict businesses.
On 22 September 2015 the Group completed the disposal of its conference businesses based in Sweden and Denmark.
On 10 November 2015 the Group completed the disposal of its conference business based in the Netherlands.
The profit on disposal of these businesses was 1.4m and the total amount payable by the Group amounted to 0.6m reflecting a working capital adjustment.
Cash disposed amounted to 2.8m and disposal costs paid amounted to 0.2m.
The net cash outflow was 3.6m.
Other operation disposals completed in the year resulted in a profit of 0.3m and included a 0.5m profit from the disposal of the assets of the Insurance IQ business in the US that completed on 1 June 2015.
DISPOSALS MADE IN 2014 Following the disposal of the Corporate Training businesses on 30 September 2013, final adjustments including related costs of 1.5m were recognised in the loss on disposal in the year ended 31 December 2014.
This was included as an adjusting item in the Consolidated Income Statement.
In 2014 the Group disposed of its Fashion Exposed event in Australia, resulting in a loss on disposal of 1.3m.
This was included as anadjusting item in the Consolidated Income Statement.
138 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 20 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Equipment land and land and fixtures buildings buildings and fittings Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 2.4 9.1 33.9 45.4 1 Additions 1.2 3.6 4.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 1.8 1.9 Reclassification 0.2 0.2 Disposals 1.3 3.7 5.0 Exchange differences 0.2 0.8 1.0 At 1 January 2015 2.4 9.5 36.4 48.3 1 Additions 3.3 3.9 7.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Reclassification 0.1 1.1 1.0 Disposals 0.5 2.4 2.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 1.1 1.2 Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 2.4 12.3 35.9 50.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2014 0.4 4.6 23.9 28.9 Charge for the year 1.1 5.0 6.1 Disposals 1.3 3.6 4.9 Exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.7 1 January 2015 0.4 4.5 25.9 30.8 Charge for the year 1.4 4.7 6.1 Reclassification 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.5 2.3 2.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 1.0 1.1 Exchange differences 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2015 0.4 5.3 27.6 33.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2015 2.0 7.0 8.3 17.3 At 31 December 2014 2.0 5.0 10.5 17.5 1 All the 7.2m 2014: 4.8m additions represents cash paid.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 21 INVENTORY 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 0.1 0.1 Work in progress 7.4 7.6 Finished goods and goods for resale 37.5 36.8 45.0 44.5 22 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2015 2014 m m Current Trade receivables 180.7 178.1 Less: provision 23.2 26.0 Trade receivables net 157.5 152.1 Other receivables 21.4 17.4 Prepayments and accrued income 64.0 49.4 242.9 218.9 Non-current Other receivables 36.2 30.9 279.1 249.8 The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 31 days 2014: 30 days.
The Group has provision policies for its Divisions determined by references to past default experience.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
Other non-current receivables primarily consist of a long-term receivable of 35.7m provided as consideration for the disposal oftheCorporate Training businesses in 2013 by the acquirer.
The non-current receivable is repayable in 2020.
In 2014 there was animpairment of 14.5m of long-term receivables related to China Medical Data Services and Expo Vinis.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 28.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
140 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2015 2014 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 34.3 38.6 Bank overdrafts 27 2.0 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 32.3 35.3 The gross position for the cash at bank and in hand that has the legal right to set-off the gross financial assets was 36.9m 2014:39.8m and the gross financial liabilities were 4.6m 2014: 4.5m.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 28.
24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2015 2014 m m Current Deferred consideration 3.5 5.7 Trade payables 28.3 29.4 Accruals 139.4 127.1 Other payables 36.7 35.8 Total current 207.9 198.0 Non-current Deferred consideration 1.2 Other payables 5.5 4.7 Total non-current 5.5 5.9 213.4 203.9 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 31 days 2014: 35 days.
No suppliers represented more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2014 or 2015.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Under the normal course of business, the Group is therefore not charged interest on overdue payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 25 PROVISIONS Contingent Property Restructuring Other consideration leases provision provision Total m m m m m At 1 January 2014 11.0 2.1 5.9 0.8 19.8 Increase in year 12.4 2.8 21.0 0.1 36.3 Utilisation 5.9 0.5 18.2 0.8 25.4 Release 1.8 0.5 0.2 2.5 At 1 January 2015 15.7 3.9 8.5 0.1 28.2 Increase in year 24.4 6.1 11.5 42.0 Utilisation 9.9 2.4 11.7 0.1 24.1 Release 0.3 0.2 0.6 1.1 At 31 December 2015 29.9 7.4 7.7 45.0 2015 Current liabilities 14.3 2.1 7.6 24.0 Non-current liabilities 15.6 5.3 0.1 21.0 2014 Current liabilities 5.6 2.3 8.4 0.1 16.4 Non-current liabilities 10.1 1.6 0.1 11.8 The contingent consideration relates primarily to current year acquisitions Megaconvention, Inc. Dwell Events, LLC, Automech and ETF.
com and prior year acquisitions Provisuale Participacoes Ltda, Design Junction Limited, Landes Bioscience Inc. and M. E. Sharpe Inc.
The contingent consideration will be paid in one to three years.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub-leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
Restructuring is expected to be utilised in 2016.
142 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 26 DEFERRED TAX Accelerated tax Pensions Cash flow depreciation Intangibles Note 34 Other hedges Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 4.4 159.0 1.1 19.1 0.1 134.5 Credit to other comprehensive income for the year 1.7 0.1 1.8 Acquisitions 0.1 11.6 15.3 3.6 Credit charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK Corporation Tax rate change 9.7 0.7 3.2 5.8 Charge to profit or loss for the year arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.4 0.4 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 3.4 1.0 2.5 At 1 January 2015 as previously reported 4.2 164.1 2.1 32.2 125.6 Adjustment for re-measurement of prior year acquisitions Note 15 34.4 34.4 At 1 January 2015 as restated 4.2 198.5 2.1 32.2 160.0 Charge to other comprehensive income for the year 1.2 1.2 Acquisitions 7.8 1.3 6.5 Charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.6 1.5 12.3 14.4 Charge to profit or loss for the year arising fromUK Corporation Tax rate change Disposals 3.8 3.8 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 6.8 2.5 4.4 At 31 December 2015 3.5 210.8 0.9 23.7 182.7 143 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 26 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for the Consolidated Balance Sheet: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liability 183.3 160.0 Deferred tax asset 0.6 182.7 160.0 The Finance No.
2 Act 2015 enacted prospective legislation to reduce the UK Corporation Tax rate to 18%, as follows: Year to 31 March 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Corporation Tax rate 20% 20% 19% 19% 19% 18% Deferred tax has been provided in respect of temporary differences arising on UK intangible assets at the enacted rate of 20% which will apply at the next balance sheet date.
Had deferred tax been provided on UK intangible assets at the future substantively enacted rates of 19% or 18% the impact would have been as follows: 19% to decrease the Groups deferred tax liability at the balance sheet date by 2.2m: 18% to decrease the Groups deferred tax liability at the balance sheet date by 4.5m.
Deferred tax has been provided at the rate of 20% on all other UK temporary differences which are expected to reverse at the prevailing rate.
At 31 December 2015 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately 36.6m 2014: 36.6m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 10.6m 2014: 12.1m has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 13.3m 2014: 13.3m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra-Group dividends and has no intention to distribute intra-Group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
144 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 27 BORROWINGS 2015 2014 Notes m m Current Bank overdraft 23 2.0 3.3 Private placement loan note US$110.0m December 2015 70.4 Total current borrowings 2.0 73.7 Non-current Bank borrowings revolving credit facility October 2020 359.1 455.2 Bank borrowing fees 4.2 4.7 Bank borrowings non-current 33 354.9 450.5 Private placement loan note US$102.0m December 2017 68.8 65.5 Private placement loan note 50.0m December 2017 36.8 39.0 Private placement loan note 40.0m December 2017 40.0 40.0 Private placement loan note US$385.5m December 2020 260.2 247.3 Private placement loan note US$120.0m October 2022 81.0 Private placement loan note US$130.0m October 2025 87.8 Private placement fees 1.6 1.2 Private placement non-current 33 573.0 390.6 Total non-current borrowings 927.9 841.1 929.9 914.8 There were no breaches of covenants under the Groups bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year.
The bank and private placement borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have any material amount of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
The Group issued private placement loan notes amounting to US Dollar USD 737.5m 2014: USD 597.5m, pound sterling GBP 40.0m 2014: GBP 40.0m and Euro EUR 50.0m 2014: EUR 50.0m.
As at 31 December 2015, the note maturities ranged between two and ten years 2014: one and six years, with an average duration of 5.5 years 2014: 4.3 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.3% 2014: 4.3%.
The Group maintains the following lines of credit: 900.0m 2014: 900.0m revolving credit facility, of which 359.1m 2014: 452.2m has been drawn down at 31 December 2015.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
32.6m 2014: 39.1m comprising a number of bilateral bank uncommitted facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
These facilities consist of GBP 16.0m 2014: GBP 16.0m, USD 13.0m 2014: USD 15.0m, EUR 8.0m 2014: EUR 8.0m, Australian Dollar AUD 2.0m 2014: AUD 2.0m, and Canadian Dollar CAD 2.0m 2014: nil.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus a margin.
The Group has two bank guarantee facilities comprising EUR 7.0m 2014: EUR 7.0m and AUD 1.5m 2014: AUD 1.5m.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2015 is 3.4% 2014: 3.0%.
The Group had the committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December 2015 relating to the undrawn amount of the revolving credit facility of 540.9m 2014: 448.8m.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 28 g. 145 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 28 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups Risk Management Framework.
TheBoard has established a Treasury Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial risk management policies.
The Treasury Committee meets and reports regularly to the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group.
These risks include market risk including currency risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the Group and has set appropriate limits and controls.
These policies provide written principles on funding investments, credit risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
In October 2014, the Group entered into a new five-year revolving credit facility of 900.0m, of which 359.1m 2014: 455.2m was drawn down at 31 December 2015.
The facility was extended during the year and now matures in October 2020.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders and sustaining the future development of the business.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 27, cash and cash equivalents Note 23, andequity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 29, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis.
As part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under the Groups borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2015 both financial covenants were comfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA of 2.2 times 2.2 times at 31 December 2014.
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable in the year ended 31 December 2015 was 14.9 times 2014: 14.4 times.
146 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS B CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument, are disclosed in Note 2.
2015 2014 Notes m m Financial assets Trade receivables 22 157.5 152.1 Other receivables 22 57.6 48.3 Cash at bank and in hand 23 34.3 38.6 Total financial assets 249.4 239.0 Financial liabilities Bank overdraft 27 2.0 3.3 Bank borrowings 27 354.9 450.5 Private placement loan notes 27 573.0 461.0 Trade payables 24 28.3 29.4 Accruals 24 139.4 127.1 Other payables 24 42.2 40.5 Deferred consideration 24 3.5 6.9 Contingent consideration 25 29.9 15.7 Total financial liabilities 1,173.2 1,134.4 C MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The Group manages these risks by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate, and currency borrowings using derivatives where necessary.
The Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Consolidated Balance Sheet net currency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable.
Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in Note 28 d and e respectively.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central Treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions in mitigating both external and internal risk events 147 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 28 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D INTEREST RATE RISK The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates, but is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
This risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts, where necessary.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this Note.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total rate rate bearing 2015 rate rate bearing 2014 m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 2.0 2.0 3.3 3.3 Bank borrowings 354.9 354.9 450.5 450.5 Private placement loan notes 573.0 573.0 461.0 461.0 Trade payables 28.3 28.3 29.4 29.4 Accruals 139.4 139.4 127.1 127.1 Other payables 42.2 42.2 40.5 40.5 Deferred consideration 3.5 3.5 6.9 6.9 Contingent consideration 29.9 29.9 15.7 15.7 573.0 356.9 243.3 1,173.2 461.0 453.8 219.6 1,134.4 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates: hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would have decreased or increased by 3.6m 2014: 4.5m.
E FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group is a business with significant net USD and net EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
In the absence of any currency conversion, cash positions in USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR, would develop imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
Thispolicy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
148 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m USD 168.0 156.5 940.1 982.8 EUR 12.6 18.6 56.1 54.6 Other 45.5 39.0 54.6 40.4 226.1 214.1 1,050.8 1,077.8 The foreign currency borrowings of 760.7m 2014: 877.3m are used to hedge the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 USD 1.53 1.65 1.48 1.56 EUR 1.38 1.24 1.36 1.28 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis In 2015 the Group received approximately 55% of its revenues and incurred approximately 43% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged to the USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
Each $0.01 movement in the USD toGBP exchange rate has a circa 4.4m impact on revenue and a circa 2.0m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to the value of USD borrowings, interest and tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
In 2015 the Group received approximately 7% of its revenues and incurred approximately 6% of its costs in EUR.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the EUR against the GBP.
Each 0.01 movement in the EUR to GBP exchange rate has a circa 0.6m impact on revenue and a circa 0.2m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to the value of EUR borrowings, interest and tax liabilities.
F CREDIT RISK The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables Note 22 and cash and cash equivalents, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and its assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
TheGroup has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss fromdefaults.
The Groups exposure and the creditworthiness of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved as part of the Groups Treasury policies.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Non-current other receivables Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 22.
The Risk Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 28 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED F CREDIT RISK CONTINUED Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas, and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets inrespect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by reference to past default experience.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit assessment system to assess the potential customers creditquality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each division.
As the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking Divisions work on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and have a low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2015 Provision 2015 Gross 2014 Provision 2014 m m m m Not past due 94.5 0.3 105.7 0.7 Past due 030 days 43.3 30.3 0.1 Past due over 31 days 42.9 9.8 42.1 12.0 Books provision see below 13.1 13.2 180.7 23.2 178.1 26.0 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 7.5m 2014: 2.0m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 13.1m 2014: 13.2m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This provision isbased on managements best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall provisionbalance.
150 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Movement in the provision: 2015 2014 m m Balance at beginning of the year 26.0 21.6 Provision recognised 3.8 10.0 Receivables written off as uncollectible 2.4 2.2 Amounts recovered during the year 4.2 3.4 23.2 26.0 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the above amounts.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2015 and 2014.
G LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and debt facilities, together with continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 27 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned onthose assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2015 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 213.5 213.5 213.2 0.1 0.2 Variable interest rate instruments 35.7 32.7 32.7 249.2 246.2 245.9 0.1 0.2 31 December 2014 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 209.0 209.0 208.1 0.8 0.1 Variable interest rate instruments 30.0 32.7 32.7 239.0 241.7 240.8 0.8 0.1 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 28 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED G LIQUIDITY RISK CONTINUED The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 356.9 361.4 361.4 Fixed interest rate instruments 573.0 705.9 24.9 170.6 317.1 193.3 Trade and other payables 209.9 209.9 204.4 5.5 Deferred consideration 3.5 3.5 3.5 Contingent consideration 29.9 29.9 14.3 14.2 1.4 1,173.2 1,310.6 608.5 190.3 318.5 193.3 31 December 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 453.8 458.9 458.9 Fixed interest rate instruments 461.0 551.7 19.9 17.5 255.6 258.7 Trade and other payables 197.0 197.0 192.3 4.7 Deferred consideration 6.9 6.9 5.7 1.2 Contingent consideration 15.7 15.7 5.7 9.6 0.4 1,134.4 1,230.2 682.5 33.0 256.0 258.7 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
H FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets isdetermined with reference to quoted market prices.
The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
The fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest at rates approximate to the market.
The fair value of all the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities is the same as the carrying amounts.
152 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS I FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2015 and 2014 2015 and 2014 2015 and 2014 2015 and 2014 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 29 SHARE CAPITAL On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc Old Informa, the former holding company of the Group, andits Shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and as sanctioned by the Royal Court of Jersey, all the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa PLC theCompany in consideration for the allotment to Shareholders of one Ordinary Share in the Company for each Ordinary Share inOld Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014, as a private company limited by shares with thename Informa Limited and re-registered on 14 May 2014 as a public company limited by shares called Informa PLC.
The Company became the Parent Company of the Informa Group and the previous Parent Company, Old Informa, was renamed Informa SwitzerlandLimited.
The Company was incorporated with an issued share capital of 2 divided into two ordinary shares of 100p each which were taken bythe subscribers and were paid up in full in cash.
On 13 May 2014 the two Ordinary Shares of 100p each were converted into two Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each and an additional 49,998 Redeemable Deferred Shares were issued to the subscribers.
The 50,000 issued Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each were redeemed on 11 June 2014.
On 13 May 2014 one Ordinary Share of 435p in the Company was issued and subsequently cancelled on 30 May 2014.
UndertheScheme of Arrangement 603,941,249 Ordinary Shares of 435p each in the Company were allotted to Shareholders on30May 2014.
On 4 June 2014 the nominal value per share of the issued share capital of the Company was reduced from 435p per share to0.1peach pursuant to sections 645 to 649 of the Companies Act 2006.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 29 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED Share capital as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 amount to 0.6m.
On 18 November the 2014, the Company also issued 45,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.1p for consideration of 207.0m.
For details of options issued over the Companys shares see Note 9.
2015 2014 m m Issued and fully paid 648,941,249 Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each 2014: 648,941,249 of 0.1p each 0.6 0.6 Number of shares m At 1 January and 31 December 2015 648,941,249 0.6 30 OTHER RESERVES This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Reserve Employee for shares Merger Other Share Trust Hedging to be issued reserve reserve shares reserve Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 3.6 496.4 1,718.6 0.2 0.4 1,218.4 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Termination of interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 26 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive expense for the year 0.4 0.4 Inversion accounting 1,756.0 1,756.0 Issue of shares under Scheme of Arrangement 2,189.9 2,189.9 Share award expense 1.7 1.7 Own shares purchased 0.1 0.1 Put option on acquisition of non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Transfer of vested LTIPs 2.1 2.1 At 1 January 2015 3.2 496.4 2,152.8 0.3 1,653.5 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 26 Total comprehensive income expense for the year Share award expense 2.6 2.6 Transfer of vested LTIPs 1.5 1.5 Own shares purchased 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2015 4.3 496.4 2,152.8 0.7 1,652.8 154 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS RESERVE FOR SHARES TO BE ISSUED This reserve relates to LTIPs granted to employees reduced by the transferred and vested awards.
Further information is set out in Note 9.
MERGER RESERVE The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from a prior year business combination with Taylor & Francis Group plc.
OTHER RESERVE Other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 2,189.9m, which was created from the new equity structure in May 2014.
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST SHARES As at 31 December 2015 the Informa Group Employee Share Trust EST held 737,272 2014: 737,272 Ordinary Shares in the Company at a cost of 737 and a market value of 4.5m 2014: 3.7m.
The shares held by the EST have not been allocated to individuals and dividends on these shares are waived.
At 31 December 2015 the Group held 0.01% 2014: 0.01% of its own called up share capital.
HEDGING RESERVE The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
31 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2015 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Brazil Design Show 45%, Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau Europen fide Recherches SA 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 15%, Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 15%, Design Junction Limited 10% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M. 10%.
The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2014 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau Europen fide Recherches SA 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 20%, Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 15%, Design Junction Limited 10% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M. 10%.
32 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2015 2014 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 19.4 18.6 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 18.2 0.9 17.9 0.6 Within two to five years 56.6 0.8 55.7 0.5 After five years 19.1 26.4 93.9 1.7 100.0 1.1 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of six years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 33 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2015 2014 Notes m m Profit loss before tax 219.7 31.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 20 6.1 6.1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 112.3 106.0 Share-based payment 9 2.6 1.7 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 0.3 1.8 Profit Loss on disposal of businesses 19 9.1 2.8 Loss on disposal of other assets 0.1 Investment income 10 4.7 3.6 Finance costs 11 30.6 29.2 Impairment Goodwill 7 13.9 193.4 Impairment Other intangible assets 7 11.1 Impairment Loan receivable 7 14.5 Share of results of joint ventures 18 0.1 0.4 Operating cash inflow before movements in working capital 371.3 328.6 Increase in inventories 2.1 Increase decrease in receivables 21.0 10.5 Increase in payables 41.7 1.5 Movements in working capital 20.7 11.1 Cash generated by operations 392.0 317.5 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT At At 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2015 movements Cash flow difference 2015 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 38.6 1.4 2.9 34.3 Overdrafts 3.3 1.4 0.1 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents 35.3 3.0 32.3 Other loan receivable 0.3 0.3 Bank loans due in more than one year 455.2 116.9 20.8 359.1 Bank loan fees 4.7 0.9 0.4 4.2 Private placement loan notes due in less than one year 70.4 73.3 2.9 Private placement loan notes due in more than one year 391.8 166.5 16.3 574.6 Private placement fees 1.2 0.3 0.7 1.6 Total 876.2 1.2 25.1 43.0 895.3 Included within the cash inflow of 25.1m 2014: outflow of 51.1m is 928.9m 2014: 382.3m of facility loan repayments, 812.0m 2014: 439.2m of facility loan drawdowns, 73.3m 2014: nil of private placement repayments and 166.5m 2014: nil of private placement drawdowns.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt includes thecosts incurred in raising debt and associated capitalised arrangement fees.
156 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 34 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CHARGE TO OPERATING PROFIT The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions, including both Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution Schemes, was 9.5m 2014: 8.9m.
This consisted of a 0.3m 2014: 0.3m charge to operating profit related to administration costs for the Defined Benefit Schemes and a 9.2m charge to operating profit relating to Defined Contribution Schemes 2014: 8.6m.
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates two Defined Benefit Pension Schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Group Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Both schemes are closed to future accrual.
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The Defined Benefit Schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company.
The Trustees are responsible for running the Group Schemes in accordance with the Group Schemes Trust Deed and Rules, which sets out their powers.
The Trustees of the Group Schemes are required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Group Schemes.
There is a requirement that one third of the Trustees are nominated by the members of the Group Schemes.
The Trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Neither of the Schemes has any reimbursement rights.
The Groups pension funding policy is to provide sufficient funding, as agreed with the Trustees, to ensure that any pension deficit willbe addressed to ensure that pension payments made to current and future pensioners will be met.
The investment strategies adopted by the Trustees of the Group Schemes include some exposure to index-linked gilts and corporate bonds.
These assets are held to provide some protection to the Group Schemes funding levels in the event of interest rates falling.
Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: however, the Group Schemes invests significantly in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation: however, this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher inflation will result in a higher Defined Benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the Group Schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation would also increase thedeficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes benefits will need to be paid forlonger, increasing the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact ontheoverall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
There are three categories of pension scheme members: Employed deferred members: currently employed by the Company Deferred members: former employees of the Company Pensioner members: in receipt of pension The Defined Benefit obligation is valued by projecting the best estimate of future benefit payments allowing for future salary increases for employed deferred members, revaluation to retirement for deferred members and annual pension increases for all members and then discounting to the balance sheet date.
The majority of benefits receive increases linked to inflation subject to a cap of no more than 5% pa.
The valuation method used is known as the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The approximate overall duration of the Schemes Defined Benefit obligation as at 31 December 2015 was 18 years 2014: 20 years.
This number can be subdivided into theduration related to: Deferred members: 21 years 2014: 22 years Retired members: 13 years 2014: 13 years 157 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 34 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation for both Schemes are those relating to the discount rate, the rates of increase in price inflation, salaries, and pensions and life expectancy.
The main assumptions adopted are: 2015 2014 % % Discount rate 3.8 3.6 Rate of price inflation 2.2 CPI and 3.2 RPI 2.2 CPI and 3.2 RPI Rate of salary increase employed deferred 3.2 3.2 Rate of increase in deferred pensions former employees 2.2 2.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners 2.0 to 3.1 2.0 to 3.1 2015 2014 Years Years Life expectancy: For an individual aged 60 male 87 87 For an individual aged 60 female 89 89 Informa Final Salary Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level ofcontributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 31March 2014.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 0.2m.
Contributions paid since 31 March 2014, in respect of the recovery plan put in place following the 31 March 2011 valuation, were in excess of those required to recover the deficit of 0.2m.
Thatrecovery plan has now expired and no further deficit contributions are required.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2015 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 0.1m 2014: 3.2m.
The Employer expects to pay no contributions to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2016 in respect of the deficit.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on Scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.6m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 4.0m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 2.1m Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Taylor & Francis Life Assurance and Pension Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 30 September 2014.
This valuation revealed a funding surplus of 1.3m.
No further contributions are therefore required.
The Groups contribution over the year was 0.3m 2014: 0.3m.
158 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on Scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.4m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.9m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.6m Amounts recognised in respect of both these Defined Benefit Schemes are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Recognised in profit before tax Current service cost Administration cost 0.3 0.3 Net interest cost on net deficit 0.3 0.2 Total 0.6 0.5 2015 2014 m m Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 1.1 2.9 Experience gain 2.0 0.3 Change in demographic actuarial assumptions 0.1 Change in financial actuarial assumptions 5.1 11.1 Actuarial gain loss 6.0 8.0 2015 2014 m m Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year 10.1 5.4 Contributions 0.4 3.5 Net finance cost 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gain loss 6.0 8.0 Deficit in Scheme at end of the year 4.0 10.1 159 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 34 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Present value of Defined Benefit obligations 106.7 112.0 Fair value of Scheme assets 102.7 101.9 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 4.0 10.1 Changes in the present value of Defined Benefit obligations are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Opening Defined Benefit obligation 112.0 98.7 Interest cost 3.9 4.5 Benefits paid 2.1 2.1 Actuarial gain loss 7.1 10.9 Closing Defined Benefit obligation 106.7 112.0 Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3 Expected return on Scheme assets 3.6 4.3 Actuarial losses gains 1.1 2.9 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 0.4 3.5 Benefits paid 2.1 2.1 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 102.7 101.9 160 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated byZurich Assurance Limited, Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited and Standard Life Investments.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited, Standard Life Investments and Schroder Investment Management Limited.
The fair value of the assets held are as follows: Fair value at Fair value at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Equities Taylor & Francis 8.2 8.0 Informa 35.3 42.1 Bonds Taylor & Francis 6.4 8.5 Informa 15.2 10.5 Cash Taylor & Francis 0.1 0.1 Informa 0.6 1.3 Property Taylor & Francis 3.3 1.5 Informa 9.3 2.7 Diversified Growth Fund Taylor & Francis 5.4 4.9 Informa 18.9 22.3 Total Taylor & Francis 23.4 23.0 Informa 79.3 78.9 102.7 101.9 All the assets listed above have a quoted market price in an active market.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The actual return on Scheme assets was 2.5m 2014: 7.3m.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 34 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Present value of Defined Benefit obligations 106.7 112.0 98.7 99.3 85.8 Fair value of Scheme assets 102.7 101.9 93.3 81.8 73.7 Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in Consolidated Balance Sheet 4.0 10.1 5.4 17.5 12.1 Related deferred tax assets 0.9 2.1 1.1 4.0 3.0 Deficit net of deferred tax assets 3.1 8.0 4.3 13.5 9.1 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities: Amount m 2.0 0.3 0.4 0.4 1.3 Percentage of Scheme liabilities % 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.4 1.6 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets: Amount m 1.1 2.9 5.2 2.8 5.8 Percentage of Scheme assets % 1.1 2.9 5.6 3.5 7.8 35 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance and position of the Group forthe year.
TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 86 and Note 8.
TRANSACTIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES During the period the Group received revenue of nil 2014: 0.01m from Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 0.4m 2014: 0.7m from SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais LTDA, a joint venture.
OTHER RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2015, the Group has guaranteed the Pension Scheme liability of 4.0m 2014: 10.1m.
162 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 36 SUBSIDIARIES The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015.
Ordinary Company name Country Principal activity Shares held IIR Pty Limited Australia Events 100% Informa Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Datamonitor Pty Limited Australia Business information 100% Ovum Pty Limited Australia Business information 100% Informa Trade Events Pty Limited Australia Events 100% Informa Fashion Pty Limited Australia Events 100% Euroforum GmbH Austria Events 100% Agra CEAS Consulting Bureau Europen Belgium Business information 82% deRecherches SA Informa Middle East Limited Bermuda Events 100% The Superyacht Cup Limited Bermuda Dormant 100% Informa Bermuda Limited Bermuda Dormant 100% IIR Informa Seminarios Ltda Brazil Events 100% Informa Economics FNP Consultoria Ltda Brazil Business information 100% Instituto FNP Brazil Business information 100% BTS Informa Feiras, Eventos e Editora Ltda Brazil Events 100% Brazil Design Show Eventos, Midias, Consultorias, Brazil Events 55% Treinamentos e Participacoes Ltda Araticum Participacoes Ltda Brazil Dormant 100% EXP Consultoria e Organizacao fide Brazil Events 100% Feiras e Eventos Ltda Provisuale Participacoes Ltda Brazil Events 100% Informa Canada Inc. Canada Events 100% IBC Conferences and Event Management Services China Events 100% Shanghai Co. Ltd Informa Exhibitions Beijing Co. Ltd China Events 100% Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd China Events 85% Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd China Events 85% Institute for International Research S. R. O. Czech Republic Events 100% Informa Egypt LLC Egypt Events 100% EuroMediCom SAS France Events 100% International Trade Exhibition Company France SAS France Events 100% ITEC EDITION Sarl France Holding company 100% Informa European Financial Shared Germany Financial management 100% Service Centre GmbH Informa Holding Germany GmbH Germany Holding company 100% Euroforum Deutschland Holding GmbH Germany Holding company 100% Informa Virtual Business Germany Events 100% Communications GmbH Euroforum Deutschland SE Germany Events 100% 163 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 36 SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ordinary Company name Country Principal activity Shares held F. O. Licht  Verlag und Germany Business information 100% Marktforschung GmbH Informa Deutschland GmbH Germany Dormant 100% EBD Group GmbH Germany Events 100% Informa Limited Hong Kong Business information 100% Informa Global Markets Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Business information 100% Datamonior Publications HK Limited Hong Kong Business information 100% Taylor & Francis Books India Pvt Limited India Publishing 100% NND Biomedical Data Systems Private Limited India Business information 100% Informa Global Markets Japan Limited Japan Business information 100% Informa Switzerland Limited Jersey Holding company 100% Informa IBC Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Events 100% Informa Events Mexico Services S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Events 100% Informa Monaco S. A. M. Monaco Holding company 100% Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M. Monaco Events 90% Institute for International Research I. I. R. BV Netherlands Holding company 100% Informa Finance BV Netherlands Financial management 100% Informa Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% Lesbistes BV Netherlands Holding company 100% IIR South Africa BV Netherlands Events 100% Informa Healthcare AS Norway Publishing 100% IIR Exhibitions Philippines Inc. Philippines Events 100% Informa Saudi Arabia LLC Saudi Arabia Dormant 100% Informa Exhibitions Pte Limited Singapore Events 100% IBC Asia S Pte Limited Singapore Publishing 100% Informa Global Markets Singapore Singapore Events 100% Private Limited Taylor & Francis S Pte Limited Singapore Publishing 100% Marketworks Datamonitor Pty Limited South Africa Intellectual property 100% managementcompany Institute for International Research Espana S. L. Spain Dormant Superyacht Cup S. L. Spain Dormant 100% Taylor & Francis AB Sweden Publishing 100% Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Financial management 100% Informa IP GmbH Switzerland Intellectual property 100% managementcompany EBD GmbH Switzerland Events 100% Ashgate Publishing Limited UK Publishing 100% Gower Training Limited UK Dormant 100% BVO Limited UK Events 100% 164 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Ordinary Company name Country Principal activity Shares held Afterhurst Limited UK Publishing 100% Agra CEAS Consulting Limited UK Business information 82% Agra Informa Limited UK Holding company 100% WS Maney & Son Limited UK Publishing 100% Maney Publishing Limited UK Publishing 100% Design Junction Limited UK Events 90% e-Health Media Limited UK Events 100% Informa US Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100% Pickering & Chatto Publishers Limited UK Publishing 100% Brick Shows Limited UK Events 100% Phillips McDougall Limited UK Publishing 100% AMIS Global Limited UK Publishing 100% Apps World Events Limited UK Events 100% Informa Finance UK Limited UK Financial management 100% Cityscape Exhibitions Limited UK Events 100% Informa Finance USA Limited UK Financial management 100% Informa Investment Plan Trustees Limited UK Trustee company 100% Informa Exhibitions Limited UK Events 100% FERTECON Limited UK Business information 100% Cogent OA Limited UK Publishing 100% Psychology Press New Co. Limited UK Publishing 100% Psychology Press Limited UK Publishing 100% eBenchmarkers Limited UK Business information 100% Ovum Limited UK Business information 100% Taylor & Francis Group Limited UK Events 100% Informa Group Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100% Taylor & Francis Publishing Services Limited UK Publishing 100% IIR Exhibitions Limited UK Events 100% IIR Management Limited UK Holding company 100% Informa Overseas Investments Limited UK Holding company 100% Datamonitor Limited UK Business information 100% Informa Telecoms & Media Limited UK Business information 100% Routledge Books Limited UK Publishing 100% T&F Informa One Limited UK Publishing 100% T&F Informa Two Limited UK Publishing 100% Informa UK Limited UK Events 100% Taylor & Francis Books Limited UK Publishing 100% Taylor & Francis Limited UK Publishing 100% Informa Six Limited UK Holding company 100% Informa Three Limited UK Holding company 100% 165 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 36 SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ordinary Company name Country Principal activity Shares held LLP Limited UK Holding company 100% Martin Duntz Limited UK Publishing 100% IIR U. K. Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100% Informa Final Salary Pensions Trustee Company Limited UK Trustee company 100% Informa Global Markets Europe Limited UK Business information 100% Informa Holdings Limited UK Holding company 100% Informa Group PLC UK Holding company 100% Informa Quest Limited UK Dormant 100% I. I. R. Limited UK Events 100% Corporate Communications International Limited UK Events 100% IBC Ten Limited UK Holding company 100% IBC Twelve Limited UK Holding company 100% IBC Fourteen Limited UK Holding company 100% IBC Informa Limited UK Holding company 100% Boston Biotech Conference, LLC US Events 100% Informa Academic and Business, LLC US Business information 100% Institute for International Research, Inc.
US Events 100% Informa Support Services, Inc.
US Support services 100% Informa Business Information, Inc.
US Business information 100% IBC USA Conferences, Inc.
US Events 100% Informa Pop Culture Events, Inc.
US Events 100% Informa Exhibitions, LLC US Events 100% Informa Exhibitions Holding Corp.
US Events 100% Informa Exhibitions U. S. Construction & Real Estate, Inc.
US Events 100% Informa Global Sales, Inc.
US Domestic international 100% salescorporation Ovum, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Export, Inc.
US Domestic international 100% salescorporation European Business Development Group US Events 100% Informa Life Sciences Exhibitions, Inc.
US Events 100% Informa Telecoms & Media USA Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Global Markets US, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa USA, Inc.
US Holding company 100% Taylor & Francis Group, LLC US Publishing 100% Washington Policy and Analysis, Inc.
US Business information 100% Datamonitor, Inc.
US Business information 100% Life Science Analytics, Inc.
US Business information 100% Citeline, Inc.
US Business information 100% Doyle Trading Consultants LLC US Business information 100% 166 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Ordinary Company name Country Principal activity Shares held Emerging Portfolio Fund Research, Inc.
US Business information 100% iMoneyNet, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Economics, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Financial Information, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Investment Solutions, Inc.
US Business information 100% Informa Research Services, Inc.
US Events 100% Sagient Research Systems, Inc.
US Business information 100% Summit Strategies, Inc.
US Dormant 100% Corporate Communications International Limited was disposed on 9 February 2016.
Of the above Informa PLC directly owns Informa Switzerland Limited.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 2 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
