06 Supplementary information Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Additional information for shareholders Major Shareholdings As at 31 March 2015, the Company has been notified, in accordance with DTR 5.1.
2R, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, as shown in the table below: Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding Wealth Nominees Limited 205,667,740 68.56 Nominee holding for Monterey Capital II S. r. l. At date of disclosure by the relevant entity Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interests of the shareholders listed above may have increased or decreased.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with DTR 5.1.
2R in the period between 31 March 2015 and 15 May 2015.
Articles of Association The following description summarises certain provisions of the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies, specifically the Companies Act 2006, in each case as at 29 April 2015.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles.
The description also refers to the Relationship Agreement.
The latest copy of the Articles can be found on the Groups website at www.
Any amendment to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, by way of special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Share capital As at 15 May 2015, the Company had a single class of share capital which comprised 3,000,314.71 divided into 300,031,471 ordinary shares all of which were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares Each ordinary share ranks equally in all respects with each other ordinary share, and has the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as each other ordinary share, as set out in the Articles.
The ordinary shares rank in full for all dividends and distributions on ordinary shares of the Company declared, made or paid after their issue.
Shareholders have the right to receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
Further information on the rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares is set out below.
The full rights are set out in the Articles.
Voting rights Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
The Articles provide that a resolution put to the vote of the general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that: a on a show of hands every member present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more members will have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member and the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for and by one or more other members to vote against.
For this purpose the Articles provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in person.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
101 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Additional information for shareholders continued Employees are able to exercise their voting rights on shares held under the Replacement LTIP through their nominee, Infinis Energy Services Limited, who hold such shares on bare trust for those employees.
Employees holding shares under the Infinis Energy plc Share Incentive Plan may exercise their voting rights on such shares through the scheme trustee, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited.
Dividends and other distributions Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
The Articles provide that the Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater holding, in number or nominal value, of the shares of the Company or of any class of such shares in each case, calculated exclusive of any shares held as treasury shares if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company, offer ordinary shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend, the right to elect to receive ordinary shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and revert to the Company.
The Company may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
The Company may resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares or by the purchase or redemption by the Company of any of its own shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may decline to register any transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is left at the office, or such other place as the Board may decide, for registration and accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her uncertificated shares by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply to any uncertificated shares to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with the holding of shares in uncertificated form, with the transfer of shares by means of a relevant system, with any provision of the legislation and rules relating to uncertificated shares or with the Company doing anything by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
102 06 Supplementary information Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Powers of the Directors Subject to applicable law and the Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Subject to the Articles, Directors may be appointed by the Company, by ordinary resolution following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at an AGM.
In addition the Board may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director provided that he or she holds office only until the next following AGM of the Company when he or she will be eligible for re appointment.
The Board, or any committee authorised by the Board, may, from time to time, appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period, and on such terms, as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Under the Articles, at every AGM of the Company any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re appointment by the members.
It should also be noted that, notwithstanding the terms of the Articles, it is the Companys policy that all of the Directors shall stand for annual re-election at every AGM in accordance with the Code.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: or he or she offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii he or she is removed by notice given by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he or she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: iv he or she is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: v he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: vi he or she is prohibited by a law from being a Director: vii he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act 2006: or viii he or she is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
The Principal Shareholder has the following contractual rights to appoint Nominee Directors pursuant to the Relationship Agreement: a for so long as the Principal Shareholder holds a Controlling Interest, the Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint no more than two Directors of the Company subject to the independence requirements pursuant to the Code : and b for so long as the Principal Shareholder holds a Relevant Interest but not a Controlling Interest, the Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint no more than one Director and one observer of the Board such observer previously having been a Director of the Company.
The Company will, for the first time at the AGM, be required to comply with new provisions of the FCA Listing Rules the Listing Rules introduced last year relating to controlling shareholders and the re-election of the Independent Nonexecutive Directors of the Company.
For the purposes of the Listing Rules, because each of the Principal Shareholder and, through its control of the Principal Shareholder, Terra Firma is classed as a 'controlling shareholder' that is, it exercises or controls, either on its own or together with any person with whom it is acting in concert, 30%, or more of the voting rights in the Company a resolution for the election and re-election of Independent Directors must be passed by a majority of votes cast by the independent shareholders of the Company i. e. any shareholder that is not a controlling shareholder, as well as by a majority of votes cast by all the shareholders.
If such a resolution is passed by a majority of votes cast by all shareholders, but it is not passed by a majority of votes cast by the independent shareholders, the Listing Rules permit a Director to remain in office pending a further ordinary resolution of all the shareholders including the Principal Shareholder to approve the election or re-election of that Director.
Such an ordinary resolution may only be voted on within the period of between 90 days and 120 days following the date of the original vote.
In the event that the Directors election or re-election is approved by a majority of votes cast by all the shareholders, the Director will be re-elected elected until the following annual general meeting.
Distribution policy The Directors believe that the Groups high operating margins and strong cash generation provide a solid foundation for sustainable dividends.
Therefore they have adopted a progressive dividend policy, targeting a dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
The Company intends to pay dividends twice yearly, with the approximate proportion of one third and two thirds, respectively, of the dividend for the relevant year.
The Groups dividend policy is only a target and not a forecast nor a profit forecast and therefore there can be no assurance that such target can or will be met.
The Group may revise its dividend policy from time to time.
103 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Additional information for shareholders continued Power of Directors to issue shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to allot new shares.
This authority can be granted for a period of five years.
However, we will follow best practice and seek shareholder approval annually.
At the first annual general meeting of the Company held on 7 August 2014 an ordinary resolution was approved to authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,000,000 representing approximately two thirds of the ordinary shares then in issue.
Additionally, a special resolution was approved to authorise the Directors to dis-apply the statutory pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any rights issue and for cash issues up to an aggregate nominal amount of 150,000 representing approximately 5% of the ordinary shares then in issue.
Similar resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Authority to purchase own shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares.
At the first annual general meeting of the Company held on 7 August 2014 a special resolution was approved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 30,000,000 of its own ordinary shares, being just less than the 10% of the issued share capital at such time.
The authority is valid until the earlier of the close of business on 7 November 2015 and the conclusion of the 2015 annual general meeting of the Company and has not been used in the period to 15 May 2015.
A similar resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Any purchases of ordinary shares will be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange and any shares so purchased may be cancelled or may be placed into treasury in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the present time, the Company has no plans to exercise this authority.
The Company does not currently hold shares in treasury but the Companies Act 2006 allows shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares that may be subsequently cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
104 06 Supplementary information Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Glossary Definitions The following definitions apply throughout the annual report and accounts unless the context requires otherwise: ABP Annual Bonus Plan: Adjusted Net Income represents the result of the profit and loss account before the impact of amortisation and impairment on intangible fixed assets, total exceptional items and tax thereon: Admission or IPO or Listing admission, on 20 November 2013, of the ordinary shares to the Official List and to trading on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange becoming effective in accordance with Rule 3.2.
7G of the Listing Rules and paragraph 2.1 of the Admission and Disclosure Standards published by the London Stock Exchange: AGM annual general meeting of the Company: Articles the Articles of Association of the Company: ASP average selling price defined as RO and NFFO revenue recognised in the period divided by exported power.
It includes an element of ROC revenue, known as the recycled element, which is received following the publication of the recycle price by Ofgem: Audit Committee the audit committee of the Board or a sub committee of it: Available gas yield the potential electrical output from the Groups available landfill gas for electricity generation, which is influenced by i the collection and supply of the landfill gas for electricity for generation to the gas engines: ii the processing by gas engines of the landfill gas: and iii excluding any engine efficiency deteriorations, outages, such as scheduled and unscheduled maintenance and parasitic load: Board the board of directors of the Company: Bond the 350 million 7% senior notes due 2019 issued by Infinis plc: CEO Chief Executive Officer: CfD a  is where the contract is opened for the difference in price of an asset, from the point of opening to close: CFO Chief Financial Officer: CGU cash generating unit: Companies Act the UK Companies Act 2006: Company or Infinis Infinis Energy plc, a Company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 08714174 whose registered office is at First Floor, 500 Pavilion Drive, Northampton Business Park, Northampton, Northamptonshire NN4 7YJ: Controlling Interest means: i 30% or more of the ordinary shares: ii 30% or more of the shares in any parent undertaking of the Company: iii 30% or more of the voting power in the Company or any parent undertaking of the Company: or iv shares or voting power in the Company or any parent undertaking of the Company, as a result of which such person is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the Company, and for the purposes of calculating a controlling interest, the holding of shares or voting power of a person includes any shares or voting power held by another person, if they are acting in concert: CSR corporate & social responsibility: 105 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Definitions continued The following definitions apply throughout the annual report and accounts unless the context requires otherwise: DC scheme defined contribution pension scheme: DECC Department of Energy & Climate Change: Directors the executive and non-executive directors of the Company: Disclosure and the disclosure rules and transparency rules produced by the FCA and Transparency Rules DTR forming part of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance, as from time to time amended: Divisional EBITDA the gross EBITDA by business unit before allocation of the Groups corporate overhead costs and before operating exceptional items: DNO Distribution Network Operator: EA Environment Agency: EBITDA before exceptional items earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairment, and before operating exceptional items: Energy Act the Energy Act 2011 as published by the Department of Energy & Climate Change: European Union or EU an economic and political union of 27 Member States which are located primarily in Europe: Executive Management Team the team of individuals who have the day-to-day responsibilities of managing the Company: FCA the UK Financial Conduct Authority: FRC the Financial Reporting Council: FRC guidance guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council: FY14 the financial year ended 31 March 2014: FY15 the financial year ended 31 March 2015: GAAP generally accepted accounting practice: Government the government of the UK: Group the Company and its subsidiaries [within the meaning of section 1162 of the Companies Act]: GWh gigawatt hour HMRC HM Revenue & Customs: HS&E Health, safety and environmental standards: IAS International Accounting Standard: ICL ICL Infinis Capital Limited, a Company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 05824433 whose registered office is at First Floor, 500 Pavilion Drive, Northampton Business Park, Northampton, Northamptonshire NN4 7YJ: 106 06 Supplementary information Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Commission for use in the European Union: IPO Initial Public Offering: KPI key performance indicator: kWh kilowatt hour: LEC levy exemption certificate: LFG the landfill gas business of the Group consisting of 315 MW of installed capacity spread across 121 sites in the UK: Listing Rules the listing rules made by the FCA under Part VI of FSMA as set out in the FCA Handbook, as amended: London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc: LTIP the discretionary long-term incentive plan adopted by the Board shortly prior to Admission under which share based awards may be granted to selected Group employees: MWh megawatt hour: NFFO Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation: Nomination Committee the nomination committee of the Board or a sub committee of it: Nominee Directors directors appointed by the Principal Shareholder under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: Non-executive Director a non-executive Director: Ofgem Office of Gas and Electricity Markets: Ordinary shares the ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 each in the capital of the Company: PPA power purchase agreement: Principal Shareholder Monterey Capital II S. r. l. as further described in page 66 of the Directors' report RCF the revolving credit facility made available under the RCF Agreement: RCF Agreement the 50,000,000 revolving credit facility entered into between ICL as borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, Royal Bank of Canada and Deutsche Bank AG, London branch as arrangers and lenders and Deutsche Bank AG, London branch as agent, security agent and issuing bank: RCF Group Infinis Capital Limited and its subsidiaries: Relationship Agreement the relationship agreement dated 4 November 2013 between the Company and the Principal Shareholder, as from time to time amended, which governs the relationship between the Principal Shareholder and the Company: Relevant Interest i 10% or more of the ordinary shares: ii 10% or more of the shares in any parent undertaking of the Company: or iii 10% or more of the voting power in the Company or any parent undertaking of the Company, and for the purposes of calculating a Relevant Interest, the holding of shares or voting power of a person includes any shares or voting power held by another person, if they are acting in concert: Remuneration Committee the remuneration committee of the Board or a sub committee of it: 107 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Definitions continued The following definitions apply throughout the annual report and accounts unless the context requires otherwise: Replacement LTIP as defined in Part XV Additional Information of the Prospectus, being the arrangements to receive a cash bonus and awards of restricted ordinary shares entered into conditional on Admission in consideration for the waiver of subsisting rights under certain arrangements operated by the Company prior to Admission: RIDDOR the reporting of injuries diseases and dangerous occurrences regulations 1995: RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents: RO Renewables Obligation, the financial mechanism by which the government incentivises the deployment of large scale renewable electricity generation by placing a mandatory requirement on licensed UK electricity suppliers to source a specified and annually increasing proportion of electricity they supply to customers from eligible renewable sources or pay a penalty: ROC renewables obligation certificate: Shareholder a holder of ordinary shares: SID Senior Independent Director: SIP the approved share incentive plan adopted by the Board after Admission: Summer 2015 means 1 April 2015 to 31 September 2015: Summer 2016 means 1 April 2016 to 31 September 2016: TFCPL Terra Firma Capital Partners Limited, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered number 04219556 whose registered office is at 2 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AP: Terra Firma the investment funds managed by Terra Firma Investments GP 2 Limited: TWh terawatt hour: UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: UK Corporate Governance the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 issued by the Code or Code Financial Reporting Council: VAT value added tax: Website www.
com: Wind the onshore wind farm business of the Group consisting of 274 MW of installed capacity spread across 16 sites in the UK: Wind farm wind farm is a group of interconnected wind turbines in the same location which are used to produce electricity: Winter 2015 means 1 October 2015 to 31 March 2016.
108 Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Investor information Registered office and head office Registrar Auditors Investor relations First Floor, 500 Pavilion Drive Equiniti Limited KPMG LLP Will Cooper Northampton Business Park Aspect House 15 Canada Square Head of Investor Relations Northampton Spencer Road London E14 5GL Tel: 01604 742 338 NN4 7YJ Lancing investors@infinis.
com Registered in England: 08714174 Group Company Secretary Graham Bisset Annual general meeting The second annual general meeting of the Company will be held in Seminar rooms 2 & 3, the Northampton Marriott Hotel, Eagle Drive, Northampton NN4 7HW on Thursday, 16 July 2015 at 2.00 pm.
Managing your shares The Companys register of members is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Equiniti directly.
Alternatively, shareholders may find the investors section of our corporate website useful for general enquiries.
Electronic shareholder communications Shareholders can register online at www.
co. uk to opt to receive shareholder documents by looking at our website.
Shareholders who choose this option will receive an email notification each time the Company publishes new shareholder documents on its website.
Shareholders will need to have their shareholder reference number available when they first log in.
This number can be found on share certificates.
co. uk, you will also find access details for your individual shareholdings so you can update your address or your dividend mandate details.
2015 financial calendar 28 May Preliminary full year results 09 July Ex-dividend date 10 July Record date 16 July Annual general meeting 07 August Final dividend payment date 13 August Quarter 1 trading statement 12 November Interim results This report was compiled by Infinis Energy plc.
Designed and produced by Dusted.
Landscape operational photography by Simon Clarke, Malcolm Cochrane and Alastair Lever.
Board photography by Robert Wheeler, Alastair Lever.
Printed in the UK by PurePrint using the and environmental printing technology.
Oxygen Offset, an FSC certified paper manufactured using 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre.
Infinis Energy plc First Floor, 500 Pavilion Drive Northampton Business Park Northampton NN4 7YJ T 44 0 1604 662 400 F 44 0 1604 662 468 www.
