STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS LEGAL NOTICES NOTICE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The terms expect, estimate, believe, should be, will be and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ from those foreseen in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those identified under Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 25 of this Annual Report.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of publication of this Annual Report.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change in the Groups expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTRARS All general enquiries concerning holdings of Ordinary Shares in Informa PLC should be addressed to our registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare : Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 44 0 370 707 1679 Website: www.
co. uk The shareholder helpline is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
To access your shareholding details online, go to www.
To register to use the website, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number SRN as shown on your share certificate or dividend voucher.
The website enables you to: view and manage all of your shareholdings: register for electronic communications: buy and sell shares online with the dealing service: and deal with other matters such as a change of address, transfer of shares or replacing a lost certificate.
DIVIDEND Informa usually pays a dividend to all Shareholders twice each year.
Shareholders can arrange for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
You can register your bank or building society details online at www.
co. uk or contact Computershare for a dividend mandate form.
If you wish receive your dividends in a different currency, you will need to register for the global payments service provided by Computershare.
Further information can be found on the Computershare website.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Alternatively, Shareholders can elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
For further details on the DRIP, including terms and conditions, you should contact Computershare or visit their website.
SHARE DEALING Shareholders have the opportunity to buy or sell Informa PLC shares using a share dealing facility operated by our registrars Computershare.
Internet and telephone dealing are available via Investor Centre www.
Internet dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the value of each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is also payable on all purchases.
Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the value of the transaction plus 35.
To use the service please call 44 0 370 703 0084 and have your SRN to hand.
This service is available Monday to Friday from 8.00 am to 4.00 pm.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift Registered Charity no.
1052686 is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 14m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,700 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on its website, www.
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility programme and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all Shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
For further information please visit www.
PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT FROM SHARE REGISTER FRAUD Over the last few years a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target existing shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved.
Report the matter to the FCA by completing an online form at www.
TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Ensure that all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from Computershare in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
If you change address inform Computershare.
If you receive a letter from Computershare regarding a change of address and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately.
Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
If you change your bank account, inform Computershare of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters Computershare send to you about this.
If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
ADR PROGRAMME Informa has established a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with BNY Mellon, the global leader ininvestment management and investment services.
Each Informa ADR represents two Ordinary Shares and trade on the OTC Over-The-Counter market in the US under the symbol IFJPY ISIN US45672B2060.
Investors can find information on Informas ADRs on www.
com dr. Informas Ordinary Shares continue to trade on the Premium Main Market of the London Stock Exchange under the symbol INF ISIN: GB00BMJ6DW54.
176 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com Informa is grateful to the following for their support and contribution to the production ofthis Annual Report: Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk Cover and divisional illustrations by AndrewBannecker Board of Directors photography by SimonJarratt Anthea Stratigos photography by Simon Jarratt Eng Guan Ang photography by KatharinaHesse Stacey Fong photography by Marissa Rocke Dana Teague photography by Teresa Berg Julian Kirby and Claire Carpenter photography by Simon Jarratt Graduate Fellowship Scheme photography byNathan Clarke All information in this report is copyright InformaPLC 2016 and may not be used inwhole or part without prior permission The paper used in this report is produced withFSC mixed sources pulp which is partially recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence andacidfree.
It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the international enviromental ISO14001 standard.
Pureprint Ltd is a CarbonNeutral PrintingCompany.
PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our registered office address is: 5 Howick Place London SW1P 1WG t: 44 0 20 7017 5000 e: info@informa.
