OVERVIEW Case study: Westfield transition to operations Here our Head of Wind Operations, The addition to Operations of these During 2014 Infinis brought Scott Mackenzie explains how Infinis five sites in 2013 was recognised as a five new wind farms into approaches the challenge of tipping point for Infinis, the point at operation, all developed and transitioning projects from our which we felt it made economic sense constructed through our own Development & Construction team to replace our original outsourced site project pipeline.
Westfield, to our Operational Wind team.
management model with an in-house model.
To facilitate this transition, new a 10 MW power station All turbines and facilities were work control tools were needed within located in Fife, Scotland, fully inspected by our Operations our enterprise management system, was one of these sites.
The engineers prior to handover, designed to assist managers and our to ensure safety and operability Group has benefited from its 24 365 logistics centre staff.
system requirements were drawn up by our newly assembled Operational Infinis operates a formal gating Wind team and programmed by process for major projects.
The outcome was an gate is the point at which the wind industry-leading system of work farm handover takes place.
The control, fully operational by March Operational Wind team accepted 2013 in time for the commencement Westfield into operation in June 2013, of electricity generation at Westfield.
though the site had been generating Our investment in systems and power since the March of that year.
people, who were recruited from Following acceptance, all site activity, inside and outside Infinis to enable us including any remaining construction to build a team of appropriate snagging work, is managed through strength, has already delivered value Operations.
The handover phase has through increased production and specific risks which require close the identification of potentially management and quality take over hazardous activities on a number procedures, particularly for high of sites, including Westfield.
We are pleased to say we managed the transition at Of course, catching and rectifying Westfield, as with our other wind operational issues post construction farms, without incident.
is good, but preventing them during the design phase is better.
10 01 Overview Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 I believe we have assembled a strong To aid communication, Infinis has Operational Wind team here at Infinis, located our Heads of Wind Farm with over 50 years of collective Development, Construction and experience in the management, Operations at our Edinburgh office.
operation and analysis of wind farms.
We are pleased that this helps deliver We use this experience to work with effective information flow between our Development & Construction functional heads at strategic level and colleagues during project design, engineers at project level.
consenting and construction and are Since commencement of operation again part of the team on A'Chruach Westfield has exceeded our and Galawhistle wind farms: generation expectations and there f The design of the substation and have been no material operational or choice of switchgear can have a health and safety issues recorded to direct impact on a sites generating date at the time of writing.
Infinis' wind farm to the combined efforts of my team, managers are trained and qualified our service partner Nordex, and the to manage and operate the high continuous support of all at Infinis.
voltage systems on our sites, Of course nothing would be possible backed up by the Infinis electrical without the co-operation of the engineering team.
We influence landowners who are very important design decisions, ensuring the partners on our renewable energy finished product is designed within journey.
I would like to extend my a wider operations strategy.
On page 31, our Head of Wind f The Operational Wind team with Construction talks about AChruach legal support also lead service and wind farm, which is in the process of warranty contract negotiations for being built and a key component on new wind farms, enhancing the delivering our growth strategy.
quality of the final contract while ensuring operational accountability.
After all, the Operations team will manage the contract for its duration, so it must deliver on our requirements.
f My team also influence the Turbine Supply Agreement, participating in negotiations and reviewing technical content, to ensure turbines are procured with operational requirements high on the agenda.
