STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial  statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give a true and financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS a whole: Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company performance of the business and the position of the Company and the law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and properly select and apply accounting policies: strategy.
This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides accounting standards.
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific By order of the Board requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the RUPERTPEARCE entitys financial position and financial performance: and Director make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a 3 March 2016 going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
94 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95   133 Company balance sheet  134 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 100 Consolidated income statement 135 Company cash flow statement 100 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 101 Consolidated balance sheet Notestothe 102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 136 Note A Principal accounting policies 103 Consolidated cash flow statement 136 Note B Income statement 136 Note C Financial instruments  136 Note D Reconciliation of net cash from operations 104 Note 1.
Principal accounting policies 137 Glossary 108 Note 3.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements 139  110 Note 5.
Net foreign exchange loss gain 112 Note 12.
Property, plant and equipment 114 Note 14.
Cash and cash equivalents 115 Note 17.
Trade and other receivables 115 Note 18.
Trade and other payables 117 Note 21.
Reconciliation of net cash from operations 120 Note 24.
Employee share options and awards 122 Note 26.
Pensions and post-employment benefits 127 Note 29.
Operating lease and other commitments 127 Note 30.
