104 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERALINFORMATION IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a 2019, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The standard sets out requirements company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and for recognising assets and liabilities in respect of leases, and will supersede the Wales.
The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, existing accounting guidance in IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations.
IFRS 16 will require the Group, where it is the lessee, to recognise assets and 2.
 liabilities for most leases, however there is little change to IAS 17 where the The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial Group is the lessor.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard statements are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to on the financial statements.
all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be effective for periods beginning on or after BASISOFPREPARATION 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The standard will impact the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with classification and measurement of financial instruments and will supersede IAS International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
While the Group has European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS not finalised its assessment of this standard, it does not expect the changes to Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical have a material impact on the financial statements.
cost convention except for certain financial instruments that have been measured at fair value, as described later in these accounting policies.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
GOINGCONCERN The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash flow BASISOFCONSOLIDATION generation and is compliant with all banking covenants.
Because of this and the The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the relatively stable overall economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group Company and all its subsidiaries, and incorporate the share of the results of is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering associates using the equity method of accounting.
current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to Further discussion of the Groups business activities, together with factors likely bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairmans review, the Chief undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Executives review, the Financial review and the viability statement on pages 1 to 51.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries which consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original business BASISOFACCOUNTING combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, the since the date of the combination, are not material to the Groups functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the BUSINESSCOMBINATIONS reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenue When the Group acquires a business, it identifies the assets and liabilities of and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on the acquiree at the date of acquisition and measures them at fair value.
Only managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual separately identifiable intangible assets are recognised.
Any assets or disposal results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
Further discussion on these groups held for sale at the acquisition date are measured at fair value less costs estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 4. to sell.
 Consideration is the fair value at the acquisition date of the assets transferred  and liabilities incurred in acquiring the business and includes the fair value of There are no new IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for this any contingent consideration.
Changes in fair value of contingent financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
consideration after the acquisition date are recognised in the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in  operating costs.
 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will be effective for periods Goodwill is initially measured at cost as the difference between the fair value of beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
the consideration for the acquisition and fair value of the net identifiable assets The standard sets out the requirements for recognising revenue form acquired, including any intangible assets other than goodwill.
If the assessment contracts with customers, and will supersede the current revenue recognition of goodwill results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in the income related interpretations.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, IFRS 15 will require the Group to apportion revenue earned from contracts to goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that each deliverable that qualifies as a performance obligation.
The transaction are expected to benefit from the business combination, irrespective of whether price receivable from customers must be allocated to each performance other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
obligation on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard on the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105   The functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalent, measured at fair value, comprises cash balances, and the presentation currency of the Group is US Dollar, as the majority of deposits held on call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid investments operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the balance sheet.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pound Sterling for 2015 for the Groups Sterling operating expenditures was US$1.59 1.00 2014: US$1.54 1.00.
 Equityinstruments Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line  which most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transactions.
Trade and other payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
REVENUE Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation Borrowings charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the Borrowings, comprising interest-bearing bank loans, compound instruments services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite such as convertible bonds and overdrafts, are initially recorded at fair value communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct transaction and balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to arrangement costs.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until charges related to borrowings, including premiums payable on settlement or such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
The Group redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for using the effective also enters into minimum spend contracts with customers, known as interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument.
take-or-pay contracts, whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum Amortisation of direct transaction costs is charged to the income statement amount of mobile satellite communications services over a fixed period.
over the term of the borrowing.
Any unused portion of the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts breakage is recognised in revenue in line with service provision when The Group holds convertible bonds which comprise both a liability and an reasonable assurance as to the breakage amount exists, or otherwise when equity component.
They are accounted for and presented separately using the contract expires.
Mobile satellite communications services lease split accounting according to the substance of the contractual arrangement.
revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract The equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from concerned, which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another the fair value of the instrument as a whole, the amount separately determined systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
The equity component remains unchanged throughout the life of the option once its value is determined at issuance.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, The liability component is initially recognised at the present value of the capital services contracts, other communications services and income from the sale and interest payments using a discount rate for a similar instrument with the of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum same terms and conditions but without the convertibility option.
After initial coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion or recognition, it is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement.
method with an interest expense recognised in the income statement and a Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided.
cash outflow resulting from coupon payments to bond holders.
The split Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when between the equity and liability components is made at issuance and not the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
revalued for subsequent changes in market interest rates, share prices, or other event that changes the likelihood that the conversion option will be exercised.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has the of accounting provided: 1 the deliverable has a stand-alone value to the unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months customer if it is sold separately, and 2 the fair value of the item can be after the balance sheet date.
Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the  relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
In accordance with its  treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and the net instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date the Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings including the Senior derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
Notes and Convertible Bonds, accretion of the liability component of the The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised in the income statement Convertible Bonds, amortisation of deferred financing costs and the unwind of except where the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument.
the discount on deferred satellite liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
FINANCIALASSETS The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in  the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Trade and other receivables, including prepaid and accrued income, are initially income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the loss.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not hedge effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated accounted are recognised immediately in the income statement.
106 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
 transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the Cashflowhedges transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The Group uses forward currency contracts as hedges of its exposure to foreign currency risk in forecast transactions and firm commitments.
The ineffective Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that portion is recognised in finance costs.
future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the sale occurs.
When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is non-financial liability, the amounts recognised as other comprehensive probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable EMPLOYEEBENEFITS right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
 Termination benefits are payable whenever an employees employment is Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
over the period of expected future benefit.
Amortisation is recorded in the income statement.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans and post-employment benefits in respect of employees.
The Groups net PROPERTY, PLANTANDEQUIPMENT obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment Spacesegmentassets benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculations are accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income liability is stated at its net present value and included within borrowings.
These statement when the related employee service is rendered.
space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the  grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based into service.
No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
 CURRENTTAX The Group incurs borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale and capitalises these items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it borrowing costs as part of the cost of the asset.
Capitalisation commences further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability when the Group begins to incur the borrowing costs and related expenditures for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or for the asset, and when it undertakes the activities that are necessary to substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs lease when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for DEFERREDINCOMETAX its intended use or sale are complete.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their Otherfixedassets carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the Other fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 Depreciation In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal been recognised.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the LEASES intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals Derecognition receivables under operating leases and income generated from terminal leases A fixed asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefit are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term is expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement.
 GOVERNMENTGRANTS When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing usage, the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
they are classified as held for sale.
This condition is regarded as met only when When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for immediate systematic basis over the periods that the related costs are expensed.
When sale in its present condition.
Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from the cost of the relevant asset carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
to arrive at the carrying amount.
The grant is therefore recognised as income over the life of the asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the INTANGIBLEASSETS reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal the balance sheet.
Any amortisation or depreciation ceases when an asset is development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair Available-for-sale financial assets classified as held for sale are remeasured to value at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are fair value with the resulting gains or losses recorded through the revaluation carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated reserve.
These amounts are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss at the impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are INVENTORIES not capitalised and the related expenditure is recognised in profit or loss in the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted average period in which the expenditure is incurred.
cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are inventory is obsolete.
capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis constructive as a result of a past event.
It is probable that an outflow of over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable each financial year.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The expense relating to annually for impairment.
a provision is presented in the income statement.
IMPAIRMENTREVIEWS  All assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is not amortised but is period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for tested annually for impairment at 31 December each year.
Indicators of an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added impairment may include changes in technology and business performance.
to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial levels for which there are separately identifiable and independent cash flows, recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the these are known as cash-generating units.
An impairment loss is recognised in liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected in recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of disposal and value in use.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
108 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
 determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and FINANCIALRISKFACTORS non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate The Groups operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the liability outstanding at each financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse expected changes in interest rates.
effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the impact of C CREDITRISK fluctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of floating rate longCredit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual term borrowings.
obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash The Board of Directors has delegated to a subcommittee, the Treasury Review and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other Committee, the responsibility for setting the financial risk management policies receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments.
The credit applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may rated financial institutions.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is: risk and credit risk see note 31.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative $ in millions Note 2015 2014 financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents 16 177.3 204.4 A MARKETRISK Trade receivables, other receivables i Foreignexchangerisk and accrued income 31 310.8 242.1 The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
The vast majority of Derivative financial instruments 31 1.4 the Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the majority Totalcreditrisk 488.1 447.9 of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2015 with fluctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
However, approximately excluding the impact of LightSquared was approximately 61 days as at 22% 2014: 24% of the Groups operating costs are denominated in Pounds 31 December 2014: 66 days.
The Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 2% and of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on 43% of revenue and expenditure, respectively, being denominated in currencies trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of managed to avoid variability in future cash flows and earnings caused by the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended As at 31 December 2015 it is estimated that: to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for a hypothetical 1% inflation of the hedged US Dollar Sterling exchange rate potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The provision for US$1.47 1.00 to US$1.49 1.00 would have increased the 2015 profit uncollectible trade receivables has decreased to $16.1m as at 31 December before tax by approximately $0.1m 2014: $1.1m : 2015 2014: $18.4m.
a hypothetical 1% deflation in the US Dollar Sterling and a 1% deflation in the US Dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2015 would have For 2015, one 2014: one distribution partner comprised approximately decreased equity by $0.1m and $nil, respectively 2014: $1.0m and $0.1m, 11.4% 2014: 12.2% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer respectively, primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative comprised 16.4% 2014: 20.3% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue for 2015 or 2014, or for 10% of the Groups accounts Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis receivable as at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014. upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
The ageing profile of past due but not impaired trade receivables is: ii Pricerisk The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or $ in millions 2015 2014 commodity price risk.
Between 1 and 30 days overdue 30.2 40.2 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 9.0 16.4 B INTERESTRATERISK Given the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets except cash and Over 120 days overdue 1.4 0.2 cash equivalents and non-current other receivables, income and operating Asat31December 40.6 56.8 cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at D LIQUIDITYRISK variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The EIB Facility is The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations at a variable rate whilst the Senior Notes due 2022, the Convertible Bonds and and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are at fixed rates.
sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
As at 31 December 2015, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups profit after tax for the year would The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and have been impacted by $0.9m 2014: $0.3m.
This is primarily due to the actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets Groups exposure to movements on interest rates on its variable rate and liabilities.
borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is: B INCOMETAX The calculation of the Groups current and deferred tax balances, including $ in millions Note 2015 2014 potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and Cash and cash equivalents 16 177.3 204.4 judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, Available but undrawn borrowing 1 as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a facilities 19 578.9 990.3 number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived  756.2 1,194.7 from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could 1 Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facilities see note 19. differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
In addition, a contingent liability has been disclosed for the year The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to ended 31 December 2015 in respect of arrangements which were entered into in meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
 C  The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires AGREEMENT management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra Canada Inc. and reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets 1 LightSquared Inc. together LightSquared entered into a Cooperation and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable estimates.
The more significant estimates are discussed below: and support the deployment of an ATC network by LightSquared in North America.
To date total cash payments of $648.8m have been received under A IMPAIRMENTREVIEW the Cooperation Agreement, including $70.8m in 2015 2014: $31.6m.
The Impairment reviews of goodwill are performed at the level of the Groups Group has, thus far, recognised $457.8m of revenue and $23.4m of operating cash-generating units CGUs.
For the Group, these are considered to be the costs under all phases of the agreement.
For the year ended 31 December Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, US Government and Global Government 2015, the Group recognised $88.6m of revenue with no associated operating business units.
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined costs, in respect of all phases year ended 31 December 2014: $75.4m and based on value in use calculations.
The key assumptions used by management $0.2m, respectively.
in these calculations are the cash flow projections, long-term growth rates and discount rates for each CGU.
In May 2012, LightSquared filed for a reorganisation under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code.
For the majority of 2015, payments from LightSquared Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were were subject to significant uncertainty and so Inmarsat only recognised as follows: revenue from LightSquared when it was received in cash.
In December 2015 Allocated Pre-tax Long-term LightSquared emerged from bankruptcy protection and raised new capital so $ in millions goodwill discount rate growth rate from the fourth quarter Inmarsat has returned to accruals-based accounting Maritime 215.5 8.9% 2.0% for recognition of revenue in relation to Phase 2 of the Cooperation Enterprise 54.8 8.9% 2.0% Agreement.
This has resulted in the recognition of a further $17.9m of revenue and EBITDA in the fourth quarter and in the full year 2015.
This accrued revenue Aviation 46.4 8.9% 2.0% was received from LightSquared in January 2016.
US Government 50.6 8.9% 2.0% Global Government 54.8 8.9% 2.0% At 31 December 2015, deferred income remaining in respect of Phase 1 of the TotalGroup 422.1 Cooperation Agreement of $208.8m was recorded on the balance sheet.
Although the cash has been received, the timing of the recognition of this Cashflowprojections deferred income, together with any related future costs and taxes, is The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is dependent upon a number of factors that continue to be uncertain.
The key determined using cash flow projections derived from the most recent financial area of uncertainty relates to the amount of spectrum LightSquared will budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
choose to lease from Inmarsat under the current Cooperation Agreement, a The short and medium-term cash flows reflect managements expectations of decision is expected by the end of March 2016.
That in turn will determine the future outcomes taking into account past experience, adjusted for anticipated revenue that will result for Inmarsat and the costs and timing of the resulting growth, from both existing and new and taking into consideration our spectrum reorganisation.
assessment of the potential impact of external economic factors.
D  Long-termgrowthrates BORROWINGCOSTS A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and perpetuity.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry associated borrowings costs are: growth rates and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IAS have been met: Discountrates whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the costs should cease and depreciation should commence: and Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result the CGUs.
The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
1 On 11 February 2016 LightSquared announced a name change to Ligado Networks LLC.
We continue to refer to the company as LightSquared in these results, reflecting the position throughout 2015.
110 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
SEGMENTALINFORMATION Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources and assess the performance of the Group.
The Groups operating segments are aligned to five market-facing business units, being: Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services: Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services: Aviation, focusing on commercial aviation services: US Government, focusing on US civil and military government services: and Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services.
Details of these business units are given on pages 28 to 43.
These five business units are supported by Central Services which include satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and any income that is not directly attributable to a business unit.
The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment as the segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
Therefore, the Groups reportable segments are Maritime, Government, Enterprise, Aviation and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment results are assessed at the EBITDA level without the allocation of central costs, depreciation, net financing costs and taxation.
2 Central services include revenue from LightSquared of $88.6m 2014: $75.4m.
3 Capital expenditure is stated using the accruals basis.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111  7.
EMPLOYEEBENEFITCOSTS The Groups operations are located in the geographical regions listed below.
$ in millions Note 2015 2014 Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives Wages and salaries 215.8 200.8 the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of Social security costs 19.0 16.5 the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure Share options charge including employers are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
national insurance contribution 14.2 11.3 Defined contribution pension plan costs 8.2 7.0 2015 2014 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs 28 3.1 1.4 Non-current Non-current 1 segment segment Post-employment benefits costs 28 0.1 0.3 $ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets Total employee benefit costs 260.4 237.3 United Kingdom 104.0 795.0 82.4 799.2 Rest of Europe 319.0 271.8 476.9 619.0 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs include the service cost and gain on curtailment in 2015 see note 28.
North America 541.8 695.5 391.2 755.8 Asia and Pacific 254.9 60.4 282.7 68.9 EMPLOYEENUMBERS Rest of the world 54.4 0.1 52.7 0.1 The average monthly number of employees including the Executive Directors 1 Unallocated 1,889.5 1,267.9 employed during the year: 1,274.1 3,712.3 1,285.9 3,510.9 2015 2014 1 Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
OPERATINGPROFIT Sales and marketing 340 300 Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and Development and engineering 213 156 satellite operation costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A breakdown of employee Administration 349 352 benefit costs is given in note 7.
1,687 1,592 Bysegment: Operating profit is stated after charging the following items: Maritime 378 356 Enterprise 74 70 $ in millions Note 2015 2014 Government 196 181 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 239.5 220.1 Aviation 68 28 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 71.7 71.7 Central Services 971 957 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 0.4 1,687 1,592 Impairment of intangible assets 14 0.4 0.3 Gain impairment of non-current 8.
 other receivables 0.2 0.6 The Groups Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management Operating lease rentals: personnel of the business.
Details of the total amounts earned during the year are as follows: Land and buildings 15.4 20.3 Services equipment, fixtures and fittings 1.7 $ in millions 2015 2014 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 31.9 46.9 Short-term benefits 4.5 6.0 Write downs of inventories recognised as Company contributions to defined contribution an expense 18 3.9 12.3 1 pension schemes 0.2 Research and development costs expensed 13.6 20.0 2 Share-based payments 5.9 6.7 10.4 12.9 Remuneration payable to the Groups auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates in the year is analysed below: 1 Includes the value of cash allowances taken by two Executive Directors in lieu of pension contributions.
$ in millions 2015 2014 2 Includes employers national insurance or other social security contributions.
Audit fees: The Remuneration report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on Annual audit of the Company 0.2 0.2 page 82.
In both the current and prior year, no Director has been a member of Annual audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 1.2 the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
Totalauditfees 1.1 1.4 1 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2  1.2 1.6 Tax advisory services 0.6 0.9 2 Other services 0.1 Totalnon-auditfees 0.6 1.0  1.8 2.6 1 Fees paid for audit-related assurance services refer to the half year and quarterly reviews of the Groups interim condensed consolidated financial statements.
2 Other services in 2014 related to a corporate financing transaction.
112 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The effective tax rate was 20.25% 2014: 21.50% and is reconciled below: 9.
NETFINANCINGCOSTS $ in millions 2015 2014 $ in millions 2015 2014 Bank interest receivable and other interest 1.4 1.5 Profit before tax 338.0 342.3 Net amortisation of premium on Senior Notes Income tax at 20.25% 2014: 21.50% 68.4 73.6 due 2017 6.0 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.3 2.4 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and Adjustments in respect of prior periods 6.1 55.2 post-employment liability 0.4 0.6 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation Totalfinancingincome 1.8 8.1 tax rate 20.8 2.7 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 74.1 84.3 Impact of prior year losses not previously recognised 6.9 Interest on Convertible Bonds 30.7 18.3 Impact of prior year temporary differences Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 0.9 1.4 recognised excluding losses 8.7 Impact of current year losses not recognised 0.6 1.7 Amortisation of debt issue costs 7.9 16.0 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 1.1 0.5 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 0.6 1.8 Redemption premium on Senior Notes due 2017 32.8 Totaltaxationcharge 56.0 1.2 Other interest 10.8 0.3 Financingcost 125.5 117.0 Tax credited directly to equity: Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 35.3 41.9 $ in millions 2015 2014 Totalfinancingcost 90.2 75.1 Current tax credit on share options 0.8 0.4 Netfinancingcost 88.4 67.0 Deferred tax credit on share options 1.1 0.2  1.9 0.6 During 2014, a non-recurring credit of $48.5m was recognised on the Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity Tax credited charged directly to other comprehensive income: date, due to the expiration of the bond holders redemption option in November 2014.
$ in millions 2015 2014 Current tax credit on cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets.
Deferred tax charged credit relating to gains on cash flow hedges 0.2 2.3 The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.0% 2014: 3.8%.
Deferred tax credit charged on remeasurement 10.
TAXATION of defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 The tax charge for the year recognised in the income statement: Deferred tax credit charged on remeasurement $ in millions 2015 2014 of available for sale financial asset 1.4 1.4 Currenttax:  comprehensiveincome 0.4 0.5 Current year 37.0 41.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 24.0 45.9 11.
NETFOREIGNEXCHANGE GAINS LOSSES Totalcurrenttax 61.0 4.9 Deferredtax: $ in millions Note 2015 2014 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33.7 18.1 Pension and post-retirement liability 28 0.4 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 17.9 9.3 Other operating income costs 2.9 2.7 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation Totalforeignexchange gain losses 3.3 1.9 tax rate 20.8 2.7 Totaldeferredtax 5.0 6.1 12.
DIVIDENDS Totaltaxationcharge 56.0 1.2 During 2015, the 2015 interim dividend of $88.1m 19.61 cents per ordinary share and the 2014 final dividend of $136.0m 30.26 cents per ordinary share Of the total $55.2m adjustment in respect of prior periods recognised in 2014, were paid to the Companys shareholders.
During 2014, the 2014 interim $53.1m related to the release of a provision for potential tax liabilities in relation dividend of $83.7m 18.68 cents per ordinary share and the 2013 final to the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
dividend of $129.1m 28.82 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
A final dividend for the 2015 financial year of 31.78 cents per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of $142.8m, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016.
In accordance with IAS 10, these financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
$ in cents 2015 2014 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 19.61 18.68 Final dividend per ordinary share 31.78 30.26  51.39 48.94 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 13.
PROPERTY, PLANTANDEQUIPMENT Service Freehold equipment, Assets in the land and fixtures Space course of $ in millions buildings and fittings segment construction Total Cost: 31 December 2013 15.1 224.3 2,375.1 1,226.4 3,840.9 Additions 1.7 18.6 85.3 266.8 372.4 Acquisitions 0.1 2.7 0.4 3.2 Disposals 3.5 141.4 144.9 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 413.7 413.7 31December2014 16.9 242.1 2,732.7 1,079.9 4,071.6 Additions 0.3 30.5 90.4 326.3 447.5 Disposals 18.1 7.9 0.1 26.1 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 0.1 73.8 733.3 802.2 5.0 31December2015 17.3 328.3 3,548.5 603.9 4,498.0 : 31December2013 7.1 181.5 1,156.4 1,345.0 Charge for the year 1.5 26.2 192.4 220.1 Impairment losses 0.4 0.4 Disposals 2.8 140.5 143.3 31December2014 8.6 205.3 1,208.3 1,422.2 Charge for the year 1.3 21.9 216.3 239.5 Disposals 16.9 6.9 23.8 1 Reclassifications 32.9 33.0 0.1 31December2015 9.9 243.2 1,384.7 1,637.8  8.3 36.8 1,524.4 1,079.9 2,649.4  7.4 85.1 2,163.8 603.9 2,860.2 1 Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 20 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group was carrying certain freehold land and buildings with a net book value of nil.
Had they been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2015 would have been $33.2m 2014: $12.5m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2015 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2015 were $1.7m 2014: $1.7m.
114 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on an acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between 7 and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 5 years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible assets.
Costs directly relating to the Groups BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 5 to 10 years.
Amortisation of costs directly relating to GX network access will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos were amortised over their useful lives of 5 years, these were fully amortised during the year.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life.
Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets commenced when the Inmarsat-5 satellites went operational in December 2015.
Indefinite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 15.
INVESTMENTS The Groups trade and other receivables are stated after provisions for uncollectable trade receivables.
Movements in the provisions during the year At At were as follows: 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 $ in millions 2015 2014 Interest in associates 12.1 10.8 1 January 18.7 10.5 Charged to the provision in respect of the Interest in associates represents the Groups investments which have been current year 13.3 9.0 treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method Utilised in the year 1.0 0.5 of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to Provision released in the year 14.9 0.3 be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and 1 Asat31December 16.1 18.7 profits have not been presented.
1 The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 is $1.6m between 1 and 30 days overdue, $4.2m between 31 and 120 days 2015 total $1.2m 2014: $1.1m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates overdue and $10.3m over 120 days overdue 2014: $4.2m between 1 and 30 days overdue, profits for the year is $2.5m 2014: $2.6m and has been recognised in the $7.8m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $6.7m over 120 days.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to 16.
 approximate to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 18.
INVENTORIES three months or less, and for the purposes of the cash flow statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in At At 31December 31 December current liabilities on the balance sheet.
$ in millions 2015 2014 Finished goods 24.6 28.0 At At 31December 31 December Work in progress 0.4 0.4 $ in millions 2015 2014 Totalinventories 25.0 28.4 Cash at bank and in hand 53.6 40.7 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less The Groups inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence.
than three months 123.7 163.7 Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows:  177.3 204.4 At At 31December 31 December Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash $ in millions 2015 2014 flow statement: 1 January 15.1 3.5 Charged to the allowance in respect of the At At 31December 31 December current year 3.9 12.3 $ in millions Note 2015 2014 Provision released in the year 1.8 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 204.4 Asat31December 17.2 15.1 Bank overdrafts 19 2.6  174.7 204.4 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has $3.0m 2014: $nil of restricted cash held in escrow in relation to the disposal of SkyWave.
 At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Current: Trade receivables 196.8 220.4 Other receivables 35.9 7.3 Prepayments and accrued income 92.0 77.7  324.7 305.4 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 3.9 Defined benefit pension asset 19.0 18.0 Other receivables 4.4 2.5  23.4 24.4 116 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
No additional funding is available under this facility, which matures on 30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments.
Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in January, April, July and October each year.
EX-IMBANKFACILITIES The Group has two direct financing agreements with the Export-Import Bank the Ex-Im Bank Facilities of the United States.
The $700.0m facility signed in 2011 was available to be drawn down for four years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
In November 2014, the Group signed a seven year $185.9m facility which has a total availability period of two years and will then be repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further five years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 1.96% for the life of the loan.
SENIORNOTESDUE2022 On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1.0bn of 4.875% Senior Notes due 15 May 2022.
The aggregate gross proceeds were $992.1m, net of $7.9m issuance discount.
CONVERTIBLEBONDS In 2007, the Group issued $287.7m of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 9 November 2017.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.5%.
The total number of ordinary shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 23.3 million shares and the conversion price at 31 December 2015 was $12.31.
The conversion price is subject to periodic adjustment if dividends paid on ordinary shares exceed defined levels.
SENIORCREDITFACILITY On 22 May 2015, the Group signed a 5-year $500.5m revolving credit facility Senior Credit Facility.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 0.70% and 1.70% determined by reference to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
At 31 December 2015, there were no drawings under the Senior Credit Facility.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 CONVERTIBLEBONDS 20.
 The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were initially At At split into a liability component of $224.3m and an equity component of 31December 31 December $56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to $ in millions 2015 2014 convert the liability into equity of the Group as follows: Current: Trade payables 91.6 136.5 $ in millions Deferred consideration 1.5 2.0 Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7 Other taxation and social security payables 7.9 5.1 Cost of issue 6.5 Other payables 6.8 3.3 Net proceeds 281.2 1 Accruals and deferred income 357.1 328.0 Equity component 56.9  464.9 474.9 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Non-current: Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2014 111.5 Deferred consideration 0.5 0.4 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2014 5.1 Other payables 24.1 25.2 Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 2014 35.6 Defined benefit pension and post-employment Cumulative redemption of convertible bond to 31 December 2014 0.9 2 liability 18.3 20.0 Liability component at 31 December 2014 304.4 Totalotherpayables 42.9 45.6 Interestcharged 30.7 Couponinterest 5.1 1 The deferred income balance includes $208.8m relating to payments received from LightSquared.
The balance has not been changed since the prior year as there were no  330.0 associated costs incurred.
This balance is expected to unwind over the forthcoming years.
2 The Group has reclassified its defined benefit pension and post-employment liability to The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest other payables from provisions during the year.
Prior year comparatives have been restated.
rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of $5.1m and accreted interest of $25.7m.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year approximate to their fair value.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
PROVISIONS $48.5m was recognised against interest charged on the Convertible Bonds Movements in the current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date.
Asset retirement Other The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior $ in millions obligations provisions Total Notes due 2022, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility to Current: approximate to their fair value see note 31.
The effective interest rates at the At 1 January 2014 0.5 3.8 4.3 balance sheet dates were as follows: Charged in respect of current year 4.3 4.3 Effective interest rate % 2015 2014 Utilised in current year 5.0 5.0 Bank overdrafts 1.25 1.25 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 EIB Facility 1.66 1.57 At31December2014 0.3 3.1 3.4 Senior Notes due 2022 4.875 4.875 Charged in respect of current year 3.7 3.7 Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.11 3.11 Utilised in current year 5.2 5.2 Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 1.96 1.96 Revision in estimated timing Deferred satellite payments 4.00 4.70 of settlement 0.1 0.1 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 At31December2015 0.2 1.6 1.8 The Groups other provisions relate primarily to restructuring charges.
The associated cash flows in respect of the restructuring provisions outstanding at 31 December 2015 are expected to occur within one year.
118 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
PROVISIONScontinued Movements in the non-current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Asset retirement Other $ in millions obligations provisions Total Non-current: At 31 December 2013 1.2 1.6 2.8 Charged to income statement in respect of current year 0.1 4.2 4.3 Utilised in current year 0.1 0.1 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 At31December2014 1.5 5.7 7.2 Utilised in current year 2.3 2.3 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 2.5 2.5 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.1 0.1 At31December2015 1.6 0.9 2.5 Asset retirement obligations relate to the expected costs of removing equipment from leased premises.
Timing of the future outflow are determined by the termination of the lease premises agreement.
In the prior year, the Groups pension and post-employment liabilities were classified as provisions.
At 31 December 2015, these balances have been reclassified to other payables in note 20.
 The current tax asset of $3.8m and current tax liability of $123.2m 2014: $8.5m and $81.3m, respectively, represent the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 for the year are shown below: At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 $ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 35.1 184.3 149.2 10.5 166.2 155.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 41.7 41.7 37.7 37.7 Other 11.0 1.3 9.7 7.2 1.2 6.0 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.7 1.2 0.5 1.1 0.8 0.3 Share options 7.8 7.8 6.9 6.9 Tax losses 21.0 21.0 20.6 20.6  75.6 228.5 152.9 46.3 205.9 159.6 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The value of deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred tax balance is shown below: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets 44.6 26.7 Deferred tax liabilities 197.5 186.3  152.9 159.6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 Movement in temporary differences during the year: Recognised At inother At 1January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31December $ in millions 2015 inincome inequity income 2015 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 155.7 6.5 149.2 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 37.7 4.0 41.7 Other 6.0 2.5 1.2 9.7 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.5 Share options 6.9 0.2 1.1 7.8 Tax losses 20.6 0.4 21.0 Total 159.6 5.0 1.1 0.6 152.9 Recognised At Globe in other At 1 January Wireless Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2014 acquisition in income in equity income 2014 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 143.7 1.2 10.8 155.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 30.5 7.2 37.7 Other 3.2 1.9 0.9 6.0 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.8 0.1 0.6 0.3 Share options 6.6 0.1 0.2 6.9 Tax losses 10.8 9.8 20.6 Total 152.8 1.2 6.1 0.2 0.3 159.6 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Temporary timing differences 0.3 Unused income tax losses 3.7 3.1 Unused capital losses 24.2 25.1 Total 28.2 28.2 Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil 2014: $nil, resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil 2014: $nil.
The Budget announced by the Chancellor on 8 July 2015 included changes to the main rates of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax remains 20% for the financial year 1 April 2016 however there will be a further reduction to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of the forecast impact of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 20% to the substantively enacted rate of 18%.
120 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
  Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations: All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under $ in millions 2015 2014 the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche Profitfortheyear 282.0 341.1 of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the option holders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Adjustments for: Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Jersey.
No new shares have been Taxation charge 56.0 1.2 issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
Financing costs 90.2 75.1 Financing income 1.8 8.1 A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reflects the options Operatingprofit 426.4 409.3 outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2015, is as follows: Depreciation and amortisation 311.2 291.8 Weighted Gain loss on disposal of assets 9.3 1.2 2004 average Shares Plan exercise Impairment loss 0.2 1.3 available options price per Share of profit of associates 2.5 2.6 for grant outstanding option EBITDA 726.0 701.0  776,155 77,026 3.72 Dividends received from associates 1.2 1.1 Exercised Staff Value Participation Plan 26,511 7.23 Non-cash employee benefit costs 14.2 11.3 Exercised Bonus Share Plan 552,027 Forward exchange contracts 2.4 2.1  224,128 50,515 3.74 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 2.7 2.7 Exercised Bonus Share Plan 136,557 Changes in net working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 5.6 8.7  87,571  87,571 50,515 Decrease in inventories 2.4 3.1 Decrease in trade and other payables 26.8 61.3  1.00 Decrease increase in provisions 5.9 2.1  717.0 653.4 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2015 is one year.
SHARECAPITAL BONUSSHAREAWARD Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and At At 31December 31 December certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards $ in millions 2015 2014 granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 92.
Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The 2014: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market-based 0.7 0.7 performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Allotted, issuedandfullypaid: 449,588,539 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Under the rules of the BSA the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to 2014: 448,321,387 0.3 0.3 satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of 0.3 0.3 the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, a total of 1,267,152 2014: 20,265 As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair under its employee share schemes.
No shares were repurchased during 2015 value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that or 2014. regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will 25.
The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages.
In 2014, The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders and LTIP, for the Groups Business Unit presidents and certain members of staff.
replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 The three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 financial years and awards are have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP made according to achievements against non-market-based targets.
Any the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares Awards PSA, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan BSP and upon vesting.
For the 2015 financial year this plan has now been replaced and Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
The costs of these awards are the participants of the LTIP are now included within the 2015 BSA scheme.
recognised in the income statement see note 7 based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date.
Further information on how these are calculated can be found on the next page and under Employee benefits in the principal accounting policies on page 106.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121  The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 92.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and FTSE 350 Indices excluding investment trusts, depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA measured over a three-year period.
For the awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
For the 2015 award, the vesting schedule has been restructured so that 30% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR for Executive Directors for any participants below Executive Director level this is linked to revenue growth over the three-year period of the awards, 30% is linked to EBITDA and 40% is linked to strategic objectives set out prior to the grant date of the scheme.
The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2015 or after are as follows: Performance Share Awards 19March 19 March 19 March 30 March Grant date 2015 2014 2013 2012 Grant price 9.34 7.08 7.00 4.60 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 12% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 22.8% 32.7% 34.1% 33.9% Fair value per share option 8.94 5.52 5.76 3.61 Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 2015 is 1.2 and 1.4 years, respectively.
 The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in February 2016.
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants are given either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 matured in February 2016.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2015 is 0.5 years for each plan.
 The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated by an aggregate of 24 monthly contributions.
A grant made under the scheme in November 2012 with an option price of 4.94 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% matured in January 2015.
Options under the ESPP expire after a maximum of 2.25 years.
This plan has now ended and the balance of exercisable awards at 31 December 2015 is nil.
122 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
 Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions: Sharesave Scheme UK and International ESPP 18 December 26 November Grant date 2012 2012 Market price at date of grant 5.93 5.93 Exercise price 4.59 4.94 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 3 years 2 years Volatility 33.1% 36.5% Dividend yield assumption 4.53% 4.53% Risk-free interest rate 0.46% 0.36% Fair value per option 1.45 1.34 UKSHAREINCENTIVEPLAN The UK Share Incentive Plan SIP has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
Arrangements exist which replicate the awards as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
RESERVES Cash flow hedge reserve: $ in millions 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 1.6 8.6 Gain loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 3.0 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 0.1 Income tax credited charged directly to equity 0.2 1 Reclassified to the income statement : Forward exchange contracts 3.1 11.7 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 0.2 1.9 Income tax charged credited related to amounts transferred to the income statement 0.4 2.3 Balanceat31December 0.9 1.6 1 Gains and losses reclassified from equity into the income statement during the period are included in the following income statement lines.
$ in millions 2015 2014 Total net operating costs 2.9 9.8 Income tax credit expense 0.4 2.3 Totalreclassified charged credited  2.5 7.5 Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve.
When a hedged item is recognised in the income statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve is reclassified to the income statement.
When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the balance sheet the accumulated gain or loss is transferred from the cash flow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123 27.
EARNINGSPERSHARE The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been calculated Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its based on profit attributable to equity holders for the year and the weighted liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
average number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held by the The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy Employee Benefit Trust.
are as follows: For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level shares.
These represent share options and awards granted to employees under being lower than expected : the employee share plans.
At 30 September 2014, the Convertible Bonds were interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value dilutive due to the credit recognised to interest expense from re-basing the placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates : bonds to mature in November 2017.
At 31 December 2015, the Convertible inflation risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation : Bonds were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not were antidilutive.
be made : active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the $ in millions 2015 2014 markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 281.4 340.5 returns : and currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact Interest on convertible bonds net of tax 14.4 investment returns.
Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 281.4 326.1 In addition to the investment-related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used millions in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to Weighted average number of ordinary shares unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit in issue 449.2 448.1 payments due.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 4.4 27.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and diluted earnings per share 453.6 475.3 post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS 19 are: $ per share At At 31December 31 December Basic earnings per share 0.63 0.76 2015 2014 Diluted earnings per share 0.62 0.69 : Discount rate 3.92% 3.74% 28.
 Future salary increases 3.14% 3.05% The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Medical cost trend rate 3.50% 3.40% Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and Future pension increases 3.01% 3.39% defined contribution arrangements.
Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life and The Netherlands.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension plan is the expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a benefits liabilities are as follows: separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees.
Life Life expectancy expectancy The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit 2015 2014 credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualified and Male current age 65 88.5 88.6 independent actuaries as at 31 December 2014.
The results of the valuation, Female current age 65 89.6 90.2 which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the 31 December 2015, are set out below.
individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees.
defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement The Groups principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefits for 2015 and 2014, mortality has been assumed to follow healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2013 improvement employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998. with a long-term trend of 1.5%.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups paid.
The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the assumptions are held constant.
exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
124 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme: obligations is as follows: Impact on Impact on Defined benefit projected benefit Postobligation pension cost pension employment increase increase $ in millions plan benefits Change in assumption decrease decrease At1January2014 103.1 17.4 Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 5.7% 31.3% Current service cost 2.4 0.2 Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.2% 31.5% Past service cost 0.1 Increase in inflation of 0.25% 6.1% 30.2% Interest cost 4.4 0.8 Decrease in inflation of 0.25% 5.8% 28.0% Remeasurement losses: Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.9% 11.8% Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 14.9 1.3 Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Gain on curtailment 1.4 Liabilities extinguished on settlement 1.3 Impact on Foreign exchange losses 5.4 1.1 benefit Impact on obligation service cost Benefits paid 0.8 0.3 increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Contributions by pension participants 1.3 Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 7.2% At31December2014 117.2 18.4 Increase in inflation of 0.5% 12.1% Current service cost 2.7 0.2 Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 22.1% 22.9% Past service cost 0.1 Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 17.2% 17.7% Interest cost 4.4 0.7 Remeasurement losses: In reality there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the Actuarial gains arising from changes in assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation.
The above demographic assumptions 1.5 analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.5 0.7 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 2.9 Foreign exchange loss 7.4 1.1 At At 31December 31 December Benefits paid 1.4 0.4 $ in millions 2015 2014 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 Present value of funded defined benefit At31December2015 109.9 17.0 obligations pension 109.2 116.2 Present value of unfunded defined benefit Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit obligations pension 0.7 1.0 pension plans is as follows: Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations post-employment benefits 17.0 18.4 $ in millions 2015 2014 Fair value of defined benefit assets 127.6 133.6 At 1 January 133.6 114.0  liability Interest income 5.1 5.0  0.7 2.0 Remeasurement gains losses : Experience return on plan asset excluding The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: interest income 4.5 17.7 Actuarial gains arising from changes in At At 31December 31 December demographic assumptions 0.3 $ in millions Note 2015 2014 Actuarial loss gains arising from changes Defined benefit pension asset 17 19.0 18.0 in financial assumptions 0.1 1.6 Defined benefit pension and Contributions by employer 1.8 1.5 post-employment liability 20 18.3 20.0 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 1.5 Benefits paid 1.1 0.6 Assets distributed on settlement 1.3 Expenses paid included in service cost 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange gain 8.1 5.7 At31December 127.6 133.6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2015 2014 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment $ in millions pensionplan benefits pension plan benefits Current service cost 3.1 0.2 2.8 0.2 Past service gain cost 0.1 0.1 Gain on curtailment 1.4 Net interest income expense 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.8 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.7 1.1 0.3 1.1 3.1 0.3 1.1 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2015 2014 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment $ in millions pensionplan benefits pension plan benefits Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.5 0.3 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.4 0.7 13.3 1.3 Actuarial gains arising from changes in experience adjustment 2.9 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 4.5 17.7 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability 2.3 0.7 4.7 1.3 The assets held in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 Percentage Percentage oftotalplan of total plan Value assets Value assets $inmillions % $ in millions % Equities 36.6 32.93% 44.0 32.93% Cash 0.1 0.07% 0.1 0.08% Bonds 70.0 55.31% 73.9 55.31% Other 20.9 11.68% 15.6 11.68%  127.6 133.6 126 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
 The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, the majority of which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property, Alternatives and Multi Asset Credit funds, which are priced monthly.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond or bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group: however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 24 years.
The defined benefit obligation within that plan is split as follows: Active members 51% Deferred members 38% Pensioner members 11% The average age of the active, deferred and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 31 December 2014 was 54 years, 55 years and 68 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2016 are $1.2m.
In 2015 actual contributions under this plan were $1.0m 2014: $1.2m.
Under the current Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2014.
The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future benefits for members of the defined benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement.
Contributions in respect of the Defined Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition.
The next statutory funding valuation of the plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2017.
As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benefits.
This could lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 127 29.
 The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows: At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 NonOther NonOther cancellable unrecognised cancellable unrecognised operating contractual operating contractual $ in millions leases commitments Total leases commitments Total Within one year 22.9 22.9 45.8 16.1 13.7 29.8 Within two to five years 45.6 18.7 64.3 51.9 24.0 75.9 After five years 51.1 0.7 51.8 64.1 64.1 119.6 42.3 161.9 132.1 37.7 169.8 Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased office space, including the Groups head office located at 99 City Road, London.
Other unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2015 relating to the aforementioned head office lease is $0.5m over one year at 31 December 2014: $1.1m over two years.
In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Within one year 5.2 27.2 Within two to five years 6.1 15.9 11.3 43.1 The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Within one year 29.0 32.1 Within two to five years 2.5 12.0 31.5 44.1 30.
 The following table summarises the capital of the Group: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Asperbalancesheet Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 204.4 Borrowings 2,163.1 2,105.1 Net borrowings 1,985.8 1,900.7 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,249.3 1,182.6 Capital 3,235.1 3,083.3 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings gross of deferred finance costs to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2015 is 2.77 2014: 2.75.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current or preceding year.
128 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS  The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial Officer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency transactions.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the income statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
 The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 Derivatives Loansand Loans and used for Available- $ in millions receivables Total receivables hedging for-sale Total  1 Trade receivables and other 310.8 310.8 242.1 242.1 Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 177.3 204.4 204.4 Derivative financial instruments 1.4 1.4 Investments 32.9 32.9 488.1 488.1 446.5 1.4 32.9 480.8 1 Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 17.
At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other usedfor financial used for financial $ in millions hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total  Borrowings 2,163.1 2,163.1 2,105.1 2,105.1 1 Trade payables and other 190.5 190.5 221.4 221.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 5.0 5.0 0.3 2,353.6 2,353.9 5.0 2,326.5 2,331.5 1 Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals see note 20.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 129 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At31December2015 Lessthan Between Between Over $ in millions 1year 1and2years 2and5years 5years Total 1 Borrowings 204.4 554.3 535.6 1,301.3 2,595.6 Trade payables and other 166.8 1.4 21.0 1.3 190.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 371.5 555.7 556.6 1,302.6 2,786.4 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations assume no changes in floating interest rates from the year end.
At 31 December 2014 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 195.4 276.0 876.9 1,276.6 2,624.9 Trade payables and other 195.8 1.9 22.3 1.4 221.4 Derivative financial instruments 5.0 5.0 396.2 277.9 899.2 1,278.0 2,851.3 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility and Convertible Bonds.
 The Groups derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts, which are primarily designated as cash flow hedges.
The fair values at the balance sheet date were: At At 31December 31 December $ in millions 2015 2014 Financial assets: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 1.4 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated  1.4 Current portion of derivative financial assets 1.4 Non-current portion of derivative financial assets Financial liabilities: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 4.5 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.3 0.5  0.3 5.0 Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 0.3 5.0 The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
130 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
 the liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the balance  sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of The following tables set out the face value and fair value of forward foreign $nil 2014: $nil see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2015 based on the market price of the bonds and is reflected in the table below.
and 2014: At31December2015 At 31 December 2014 At31December2015 Carrying Fairvalue Carrying Fair value $ in millions amount amount amount amount Maturing Maturing between Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 996.3 1,000.0 992.5 Outstanding forward foreign Face within 1and2 Fairvalue Ex-Im Bank Facilities 714.2 741.4 637.0 637.0 exchange contracts in millions value 1year years US$ Convertible Bonds 326.6 498.6 301.3 418.7 GBP contracts 10.0 10.0 0.3 At 31 December 2014 32.
CAPITALCOMMITMENTS The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital Maturing Maturing between commitments as at 31 December 2015 of $1,219.9m 2014: $504.0m.
Outstanding forward foreign Face within 1 and 2 Fair value These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Groups GX, exchange contracts in millions value 1 year years US$ S-band and I-6 satellite programmes.
DISPOSAL Canadian Dollar contracts $18.0 $18.0 0.7 In January 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 19% holding in SkyWave 3.6 Mobile Communications to ORBCOMM Inc. for total proceeds of $32.9m and recognised an after-tax gain of $8.1m.
The share sale was one part of a suite of agreements with ORBCOMM Inc. covering the joint ownership and future  development and commercialisation of the IsatData Pro IDP technology.
Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term As part of these agreements the Group acquired SkyWaves satellite network investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
assets, hosted at three Inmarsat Satellite Access Stations, for $7.5m.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, 34.
CONTINGENTLIABILITY deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and  standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, FINANCIALLIABILITIES fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2022, the Ex-Im Bank Facilities and reputational damage and other sanctions.
These matters are inherently the Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial difficult to quantify.
instruments approximate to the carrying value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of Senior Notes due 2022, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7. at the balance sheet date, and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disclosed contingent these instruments see note 16 : liabilities in respect of outstanding tax issues with HMRC for which no provision the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income had been made, totalling $18m.
During the year, HMRC concluded their review and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values relating to $12m of this amount with no adjustment to the filed position.
see notes 17 and 20 respectively : The remaining exposure is covered within the balance sheet tax provision.
the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period 35.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19 : In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its the Senior Notes due 2022 are reflected in the balance sheet net of equity-owned investees NTS Maritime Limited, Navarino Telecom SA and JSAT unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $7.3m and Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and $6.5m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table: the related parties for the 2015 financial year was $37.4m, $nil and $22.8m, the EIB Facility is reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised respectively 2014: $34.0m, $0.1m and $22.0m, respectively.
The amount arrangement costs of $0.4m 2014: $0.6m.
The fair value approximates the receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2015 was $13.1m, $nil and carrying value see note 19 : $2.2m, respectively 2014: $14.5m, $0.8m and $2.7m, respectively.
the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $18.0m 2014: $18.9m.
The fair value of Amounts owing to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at the 2011 facility has been based on the implicit interest rate of the 2014 31 December 2015 and 2014 were $1m and $6.2m, respectively, and relate facility see note 19 : and to remuneration earned in the normal course of operations see note 8.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 36.
SUBSIDIARIES At 31 December 2015, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries and associates: Interestin Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary Country of sharecapital share capital incorporation and at31December at 31 December Principal activity operation 2015 2014 Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance PLC Finance company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100% ISAT Global Xpress OOO Operating company Russian Federation 100% 100% Inmarsat Brasil Limitada Operating company Brazil 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% PT ISAT Operating company Indonesia 100% 100% Inmarsat Communications Company LLC Operating company United Arab Emirates 49% 49% Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% ISAT US Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% Segovia, Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% Segovia Commercial Services Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100% Inmarsat Inc. Holding company United States 100% 100% Inmarsat US Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Europasat Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100% Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance III Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Canada Holdings Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Canada Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 100% Stratos Holdings Cyprus Limited Holding company Cyprus 100% 100% Stratos fide Mexico S. A fide C. V Dormant Mexico 100% 100% Stratos Gesellschaft fur  mbH.
Operating company Germany 100% 100% Stratos Global Japan KK Holding company Japan 100% 100% Stratos Global Holdings Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100% Stratos Broadband Communications Dormant Kazakhstan 100% 100% Stratos Investments BV Holding company The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions SA PTY Limited Operating company South Africa 90% 90% Inmarsat Spain S. A.
Operating company Spain 100% 100% Inmarsat Hong Kong Limited Operating company Hong Kong 100% 100% Xantic Brazil Limited Dormant Brazil 100% 100% Inmarsat BV Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100% Inmarsat IP Company Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Launch Company Limited Operating company Isle of Man 100% 100% 132 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
 Interestin Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary Country of sharecapital share capital incorporation and at31December at 31 December Principal activity operation 2015 2014 Inmarsat Global Xpress Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat SA Operating company Switzerland 100% 100% NewWave Broadband Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Pte.
Limited Operating company Singapore 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions ehf.
Operating company Iceland 51% 51% Inmarsat Australia Pty Limited Operating company Australia 100% 100% Allsatphones Pty Limited Operating company Australia 100% 100% Inmarsat KK Operating company Japan 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Shanghai Co. Limited Operating company China 100% 100% Inmarsat India Private Limited Operating company India 100% NTS Maritime Limited Associate Cyprus 49% 49% Navarino Telecom SA Associate Cyprus 49% Navarino UK Limited Associate England and Wales 49% JSAT Mobile Communications Inc Associate Japan 26.67% 26.67% In accordance with s479A of the Companies Act 2006, the following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015: Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited 03688399, Stratos Global Holdings Limited 04113448, Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited 03669306 and Inmarsat Leasing Limited 02487502.
