Group information History and developments Capital expenditure Capital expenditure in 2015 totalled $264 million excluding the The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales $438m acquisition of Kimpton and a $22m loan to an associate which with registered number 5134420 on 21 May 2004 as a limited company was repaid in the year compared with $271 million in 2014 and under the Companies Act 1985 with the name Hackremco No.
In 2004 05, as part of a scheme of arrangement to facilitate At 31 December 2015, capital committed being contracts placed the return of capital to shareholders, the following structural changes for expenditure on property, plant and equipment, and intangible were made to the Group: i on 24 March 2005, Hackremco No.
2154 assets not provided for in the Group Financial Statements Limited changed its name to New InterContinental Hotels Group totalled $76 million.
Limited: ii on 27 April 2005, New InterContinental Hotels Group The Group has also committed to invest in a number of its Limited re-registered as a public limited company and changed its associates, with an estimated outstanding commitment of name to New InterContinental Hotels Group PLC: and iii on 27 June $45 million, based on current forecasts.
2005, New InterContinental Hotels Group PLC changed its name to InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and became the holding company of the Group.
Risk factors The Group, formerly known as Bass and, more recently, Six Continents, The Group is subject to a variety of inherent risks that may have was historically a conglomerate operating as, among other things, an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition, a brewer, soft drinks manufacturer, hotelier, leisure operator, and turnover, profits, brands and reputation.
This section describes the restaurant, pub and bar owner.
In the last several years, the Group has main risks that could materially affect the Groups business.
The risks undergone a major transformation in its operations and organisation, below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some risks are not as a result of the separation as discussed below and a number of yet known to the Group and some that the Group does not currently significant disposals during this period, which has narrowed the believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The risk factors should also be considered in connection On 15 April 2003, following shareholder and regulatory approval, with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Six Continents PLC as it then was separated into two new listed Report and Form 20-F and the cautionary statements regarding groups, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as it then was, forward-looking statements on page 180. comprising the hotels and soft drinks businesses, and Mitchells & Butlers plc, comprising the retail and standard commercial The Group is exposed to the risks of political and economic property developments business.
developments The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial market The Group disposed of its interests in the soft drinks business by developments such as recession, ination and availability of credit and way of an initial public offering of Britvic Britannia Soft Drinks Limited currency uctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income.
for the period up to 18 November 2005, and thereafter, Britannia The outlook for 2016 may worsen due to uncertainty in Greater China SD Holdings Limited renamed Britvic plc on 21 November 2005, and the Eurozone, the impact of declining commodity prices on which became the holding company of the Britvic Group on economies dependent on such exports, and continued unrest in parts 18 November 2005, a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks of the Middle East and Africa.
The interconnected nature of economies in the UK, in December 2005. suggests any of these or other events could trigger a recession that Following separation, the Group has undertaken an asset-disposal reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and programme, realising, by the end of 2015, proceeds of $7.9 billion.
adversely affects room rates and or occupancy levels and other This programme has signicantly reduced the capital requirements income-generating activities.
The owners or potential owners of hotels of the Group whilst largely retaining the hotels in the IHG System.
franchised or managed by the Group face similar risks that could adversely impact their solvency and the Groups ability to secure and A small number of hotels have been sold since the end of 2014, retain franchise or management agreements.
Specically, the Group the most significant of which are set out below.
is most exposed to the US market and, increasingly, to Greater China.
Recent acquisitions and divestitures Accordingly, the Group is particularly susceptible to adverse changes The Group agreed to sell InterContinental Paris Le Grand on in these economies as well as changes in their currencies.
In addition 7 December 2014 for 330 million, and the transaction was to trading conditions, the economic outlook also affects the availability completed on 20 May 2015. of capital to current and potential owners, which could impact existing The Group agreed to acquire Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants operations and the health of the pipeline.
on 15 December 2014, and the transaction was completed on 16 January 2015 for $430 million before working capital adjustments and cash acquired.
The Group agreed to sell InterContinental Hong Kong on 10 July 2015 for $938 million, and the transaction was completed on 30 September 2015.
The Group also divested a number of investments for total proceeds of $17 million in 2015.
156 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely impact The Group is exposed to increasing competition from online travel domestic or international travel agents and intermediaries The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely A proportion of the Groups bookings originate from large impacted by events that reduce domestic or international travel, multinational, regional and local online travel agents and such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, political or intermediaries with which the Group has contractual arrangements civil unrest, epidemics or threats thereof, travel-related accidents and to which it pays commissions.
These websites offer a wide breadth or industrial action, natural disasters, or other local factors impacting of products, often across multiple brands, have growing booking and specic countries, cities or individual hotels, as well as increased review capabilities, and may create the perception that they offer the transportation and fuel costs.
A decrease in the demand for hotel lowest prices.
Some of these online travel agents and intermediaries rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on have strong marketing budgets and aim to create brand awareness the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate and brand loyalty among consumers and may seek to commoditise planning, preparation, response or recovery in relation to a major hotel brands through price and attribute comparison.
Further, if these incident or crisis may cause loss of life, prevent operational continuity, companies continue to gain market share, they may impact the or result in financial loss, and consequently impact the value of our Groups profitability, undermine the Groups own booking channels brands and or the reputation of the Group.
and value to its hotel owners, and may be able to increase commission rates and negotiate other favourable contract terms.
The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply-and-demand cycle The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to identifying, The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected securing and retaining franchise and management agreements by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and weak demand due, The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, or other differences securing and retaining franchise and management agreements.
between planning assumptions and actual operating conditions.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and the franchise These conditions could result in reductions in room rates and business model.
Competition with other hotel companies may occupancy levels, which would adversely impact the financial generally reduce the number of suitable franchise, management and performance of the Group.
investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining position of property owners seeking to become a The Group is subject to a competitive and changing industry franchisee or engage a manager.
The terms of new franchise or The Group operates in a competitive industry and must compete management agreements may not be as favourable as current effectively against traditional competitors such as other global hotel arrangements: the Group may not be able to renew existing chains, local hotel companies and independent hotels to win the loyalty arrangements on similarly favourable terms, or at all.
of guests, employees and owners.
The competitive landscape also includes other types of businesses, such as web-based booking There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, channels which include online travel agents and intermediaries, retain or add franchisees to the IHG System or to secure management and alternative sources of accommodation such as short-term lets contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, market of private property.
Failure to compete effectively in traditional and saturation, planning and other local regulations or the availability emerging areas of the business could impact the Groups market share, and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable System size, profitability and relationships with owners and guests.
hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with entering into franchise or The Group is exposed to risks related to executing and realising management agreements, the Group may be required to make benets from strategic transactions, including acquisitions investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or The Group completed the acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants guarantee minimum income to third parties.
There are also risks in January 2015 and may seek to make other strategic transactions, that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have including acquisitions, in the future.
The Group may not be able to interests that conict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group, identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support reasonable terms, or at all, and may not realise the anticipated brand improvement initiatives.
This could result in franchisees benets from such transactions.
Strategic transactions come with prematurely terminating contracts which would adversely impact inherent valuation, financial and commercial risks, and regulatory and the overall IHG System size and the Groups financial performance.
insider information risks during the execution of the transactions.
In addition, the Group may face unforeseen costs and liabilities, diversion The Group is exposed to inherent risks in relation to changing of management attention, as well as longer-term integration and technology and systems operational risks, which could result in a failure to realise benets, As the use of the internet and mobile technology grows and customer financial losses, lower employee morale and loss of talent.
needs evolve at pace, the Group may nd that its evolving technology capability is not sufficient and may have to make substantial additional The Group is dependent upon a wide range of external stakeholders investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
and business partners Failure to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems The Group relies on the performance, behaviours and reputation may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
In addition, the of a wide range of business partners and external stakeholders, technologies or systems that the Group chooses to deploy may not including, but not limited to, owners, contractors, lenders, suppliers, be commercially successful or the technology or system strategy may vendors, joint-venture partners, online travel agents, third-party not be sufciently aligned with the needs of the business.
As a result, intermediaries and other business partners which may have different this could adversely affect guest experiences, and the Group may lose ethical values, interests and priorities.
Further, the number and customers, fail to attract new customers, incur substantial costs or complexity of interdependencies with stakeholders is evolving.
This could further impact the Groups reputation Breakdowns in relationships, contractual disputes, poor vendor in regards to innovation.
performance, insolvency, stakeholder behaviours or adverse reputations, which may be outside of the Groups control, could adversely impact on the Groups performance and competitiveness, delivery of projects, guest experiences or the reputation of the Group or its brands.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 157 Group information continued The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and is exposed Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing to inherent reputation risks economic growth, and the Group must compete against other Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably Groups existing or new brands and or fails to sustain the appeal of the qualied or experienced employees.
Some emerging markets may Groups existing or new brands to its customers and owners may have not have the required local expertise to operate a hotel and may not be an adverse impact on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues able to attract the right talent.
Failure to attract and retain employees from that brand or business.
In particular, if the Group is unable to may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
create consistent, valued, and quality products and guest experiences Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure across the owned, managed and franchised estates, or if the Group, to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing its franchisees or business partners fail to act responsibly, this could accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
result in an adverse impact on its brand reputation.
In addition, the The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with its financial value of the Groups brands could be inuenced by a number of stability and ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants external factors outside the Groups control, such as, but not limited While the strategy of the Group is to extend the IHG System through to, changes in sentiments against global brands, changes in applicable activities that do not involve significant amounts of its own capital, the regulations related to the hotel industry or to franchising, successful Group does require capital to fund some development opportunities, commoditisation of hotel brands by online travel agents and technological innovations and strategic acquisitions: and to maintain intermediaries, or changes in owners perceptions of the value of and improve owned hotels.
The Group is reliant upon having financial the Group.
strength and access to borrowing facilities to meet these expected The Group is exposed to risks associated with its intellectual property capital requirements.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are complied the protection of its intellectual property poses a risk due to the with.
Non-compliance with covenants could result in the Groups variability and changes in controls, laws and effectiveness of lenders demanding repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups enforcement globally.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation financial performance does not meet market expectations, it may not or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the be able to renance existing facilities on terms considered favourable.
value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation The Group is reliant upon the resilience of its reservation system Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims and other key technology platforms and is exposed to risks that could and proceedings.
The ultimate outcome of these matters is subject cause the failure of these systems to many uncertainties, including future events and uncertainties The value of the Group is partly derived from the ability to drive inherent in litigation.
In addition, the Group could be at risk of litigation reservations through its reservation system and technology platforms claims made by many parties, including but not limited to: guests, which are highly integrated with internal processes and linked to customers, joint-venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory multiple sales channels, including the Groups own websites, call authorities, franchisees and or the owners of the hotels it manages.
centres, hotels, third-party intermediaries and travel agents.
Claims led in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Unfavourable outcomes of claims Lack of resilience and operational availability of these systems or proceedings could have a material adverse impact on the Groups provided by the Group or third-party technology providers could results of operations, cash ow and or financial position.
Exposure lead to prolonged service disruption and might result in significant to significant litigation or fines may also affect the reputation of the business interruption, impact the guest booking experience and Group and its brands.
subsequently adversely impact Group revenues, reputation and relationships with hotel owners.
The Group is exposed to the risks related to information security and data privacy The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with safety, The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity security and crisis management and condentiality of information, including, but not limited to: guest There is a constant need to protect the safety and security of our and employee credit card, financial and personal data: and business guests, employees and assets against natural and man-made threats.
performance, financial reporting and commercial development.
These include, but are not limited to, exceptional events such as The information is sometimes held in different formats such as digital, extreme weather, civil or political unrest, violence and terrorism, paper, voice recordings and video and could be stored in many places, serious and organised crime, fraud, employee dishonesty, cyber including facilities managed by third-party service providers.
crime, pandemics, re, and day-to-day accidents, incidents and petty The threats towards the Groups information are dynamic, and crime which impact the guest or employee experience, could cause include cyber attacks, fraudulent use, loss or misuse by employees loss of life, sickness or injury and result in compensation claims, fines and breaches of our vendors security arrangements amongst others.
from regulatory bodies, litigation and impact reputation.
Serious The legal and regulatory environment around data privacy and incidents or a combination of events could escalate into a crisis which, requirements set out by the payment-card industry surrounding if managed poorly, could further expose the Group and its brands information security across the many jurisdictions in which the Group to significant reputational damage.
If the Group fails to appropriately The Group requires the right people, skills and capability to manage protect information and ensure relevant controls are in place to growth and change enable the appropriate use and release of information through the In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner, IHG System people.
This includes hiring and retaining highly skilled employees performance, guest experience and the reputation of the Group may with particular expertise or leadership capability.
The implementation be adversely affected.
This can lead to revenue losses, fines, of the Groups strategic business plans could be undermined by failure penalties, litigation and other additional costs.
to build a resilient corporate culture, failure to recruit or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or failure to invest in the development of key skills.
158 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Group is required to comply with existing and changing The Group may face difficulties insuring its business regulations and societal expectations across numerous countries, Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined territories and jurisdictions to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and the risk prole of the Government regulations affect countless aspects of the Groups business.
However, forces beyond the Groups control, including business ranging from corporate governance, health and safety, the market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain environment, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, and the Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other disability access, data privacy and information protection, financial, forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural accounting and tax.
Regulatory changes may require significant disasters, may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit the Groups Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large strategy, including the markets the Group operates in, brand protection, claims or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, and use or transmittal of personal data.
If the Group fails to comply with as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties.
existing or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to fines, prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputational damage.
The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are inuenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception of stakeholder groups such as guests, owners, suppliers and communities in which the Group operates.
The social and environmental impacts of its business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk of damage to its reputation if it fails to or fails to inuence its business partners to undertake responsible practices and engage in ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
These shareholdings include all beneficial interests and those held by Executive Committee members spouses and other connected persons.
For further details on the APP deferred share award and for the LTIP share award, see pages 70, 72 and 73.
Executive Directors benets upon termination of office All current Executive Directors have a rolling service contract with a notice period from the Group of 12 months.
As an alternative, the Group may, at its discretion, pay in lieu of that notice.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension contributions, and other contractual benets.
Where possible, the Group will seek to ensure that, where a leaver mitigates their losses by, for example, nding new employment, there will accordingly be a corresponding reduction in compensation payable for loss of ofce.
Further details on the policy for determination of termination payments are included in the Directors Remuneration Policy, which is available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance directors remuneration policy.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 159 Group information continued Description of securities other than equity securities Fees and charges payable to a depositary Category as dened by SEC Depositary actions Associated fee Depositing or substituting Each person to whom ADRs are issued against deposits of shares, $5 for each 100 ADSs the underlying shares including deposits and issuances in respect of: or portion thereof share distributions, stock splits, rights, mergers: and exchange of securities or any other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities Receiving or distributing Distribution of stock dividends $5 for each 100 ADSs dividends or portion thereof Distribution of cash $0.02 or less per ADS or portion thereof Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal $5 for each 100 ADSs to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which would have or portion thereof been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Withdrawing an underlying Acceptance of ADRs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities $5 for each 100 ADSs security or portion thereof Transferring, splitting or Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts $1.50 per ADS grouping receipts a General depositary services, Other services performed by the depositary in administering the ADRs $0.02 per ADS or portion thereof particularly those charged not more than once each calendar on an annual basis year and payable at the sole discretion of the ADR Depositary by billing ADR holders or by deducting such charge from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of ADR holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole compliance with foreign exchange control regulations or any law discretion of the ADR Depositary or regulation relating to foreign investment: by billing ADR holders or by the ADR Depositarys or its custodians compliance with applicable deducting charges from one or laws, rules or regulations: more cash dividends or other cash stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges: distributions are $20 per transaction cable, telex, facsimile transmission delivery: transfer or registration fees in connection with the deposit and withdrawal of deposited securities: expenses of the ADR Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency : and any other charge payable by the ADR Depositary or its agents a These fees are not currently being charged by the ADR Depositary.
Fees and charges payable by a depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. JPMorgan or the ADR Depositary is the depositary for IHGs ADR programme.
The ADR Depositarys principal th executive ofce is at: J. P. Morgan Depositary Receipts, 4 New York Plaza, 12 Floor, New York, NY 10004, US.
The ADR Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain reasonable Company expenses related to the Companys ADR programme and incurred by the Company in connection with the ADR programme.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company received $300,000 from the ADR Depositary in respect of legal, accounting and other fees incurred in connection with the preparation of the Annual Report and Form 20-F, ongoing SEC compliance and listing requirements, investor relations programmes, and advertising and public relations expenditure.
160 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Articles of Association The Directors have authority under the Articles to set their own remuneration provided certain criteria are met.
While an agreement The Companys Articles of Association the Articles were adopted to award remuneration to a Director is an arrangement with the at the AGM held on 28 May 2010 and are available on the Companys Company that comprises a Permitted Interest and therefore does not website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
require authorisation by the Board in that respect, it is nevertheless The following summarises material rights of holders of the Companys a matter that would be expected to give rise to a conict of interest ordinary shares under the material provisions of the Articles and between the Director concerned and the Company, and such conict English law.
This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference must be authorised by a resolution of the Board.
The Director that is to the Companies Act and the Articles.
interested in such a matter may neither vote on the resolution to The Companys shares may be held in certicated or uncerticated authorise such conict, nor count in the quorum of the meeting at form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make which it was passed.
Furthermore, as noted above, the interested additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys shares Director is not permitted to vote in respect of any proposal in which he in the future.
has any material interest except in respect of the limited exceptions outlined above nor may he count in the quorum of the meeting at In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in which such business is transacted.
the Companys register of members as the holder of the relevant share.
As such, a Director has no power, in the absence of an independent Principal objects quorum, to vote on compensation to himself, but may vote on a The Company is incorporated under the name InterContinental Hotels resolution and may count in the quorum of the meeting at which Group PLC and is registered in England and Wales with registered it was passed to award compensation to Directors provided those number 5134420.
The Articles do not restrict its objects or purposes.
arrangements do not confer a benefit on him.
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Directors Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate Under the Articles, a Director may have an interest in certain matters amount of all monies borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries Permitted Interest without the prior approval of the Board provided shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the Companys share he has declared the nature and extent of such Permitted Interest at capital and consolidated reserves, unless sanctioned by an ordinary a meeting of the Directors or in the manner set out in Section 184 resolution of the Company.
or Section 185 of the Companies Act.
Under the Articles, there are no age-limit requirements relating to Any matter which does not comprise a Permitted Interest must a persons qualication to hold ofce as a Director of the Company.
be authorised by the Board in accordance with the procedure and requirements contained in the Articles, including the requirement that Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by way a Director may not vote on a resolution to authorise a matter in which of qualication.
he is interested, nor may he count in the quorum of the meeting at which such business is transacted.
Rights attaching to shares Dividend rights and rights to share in the Companys profits Further, a Director may not vote in respect of any proposal in which he, Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK Company, nor may he count in the quorum of the meeting at which such and by the Companies Act.
No dividend will bear interest as against business is transacted.
This is subject to certain exceptions, including the Company.
in relation to proposals: a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company: b indemnifying a third party in Holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive such respect of obligations of the Company for which the Director has dividends as may be declared by the shareholders in general meeting, assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee: c relating rateably according to the amounts paid up on such shares, provided that to an offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter: the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
d concerning another body corporate in which the Director is The Companys Board of Directors may declare and pay to shareholders beneficially interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of such interim dividends as appear to them to be justied by the any class of shares of such a body corporate: e relating to an employee Companys financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees: of the shareholders, the Board of Directors may also direct payment of and f relating to liability insurance that the Company is empowered a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specic assets and to purchase for the benefit of Directors of the Company in respect of in particular of paid-up shares or debentures of any other company.
actions undertaken as Directors or ofcers of the Company.
Any dividend unclaimed by a member or by a person entitled by virtue of transmission on death or bankruptcy or otherwise by operation of law after six years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will revert to the Company.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 161 Group information continued Voting rights Variation of rights The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, in respect of their holdings If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different of such shares, to receive notice of general meetings and to attend, classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, speak and vote at such meetings in accordance with the Articles.
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded.
On a show passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
of hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy at At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two or more has one vote for every share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal demanded by any of the following: value of the issued shares of that class.
the chairman of the meeting: at least five shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled Rights in a winding-up to vote at the meeting: Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of assets available representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total for distribution: voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting: or after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting and on creditors: and which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate at least equal subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares, to one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according that right.
to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
This distribution A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one.
adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets The necessary quorum for a general meeting is three persons in kind.
carrying a right to vote upon the business to be transacted, whether present in person or by proxy.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Articles Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are two kinds: the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the election that would generally apply to all of the Companys shareholders.
of Directors, the approval of financial statements, the cumulative annual payment of dividends, the appointment of the Auditor, the increase of share capital or the grant of authority to allot shares: and Working Time Regulations 1998 a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending the Articles, disapplying statutory pre-emption rights, modifying Under EU law, many employees of Group companies are now covered the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of by the Working Time Regulations which came into force in the UK the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning on 1 October 1998.
These regulations implemented the European the Companys winding up or changing the Companys name.
Working Time Directive and parts of the Young Workers Directive, and lay down rights and protections for employees in areas such An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority as maximum working hours, minimum rest time, minimum days of the votes of those persons present and entitled to vote at a meeting off and paid leave.
at which there is a quorum.
In the UK, there is in place a national minimum wage under the Special resolutions require the afrmative vote of not less than three National Minimum Wage Act 1998, as amended.
At 31 December 2015, quarters of the persons present and entitled to vote at a meeting at the minimum wage for individuals between 18 and under the age of 21 which there is a quorum.
was 5.30 per hour and 6.70 per hour for individuals age 21 and above AGMs must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
in each case, excluding apprentices aged under 19 years or, otherwise, Subject to law, other meetings must be convened upon advance in the first year of their apprenticeships.
This particularly impacts written notice of 14 days.
The days of delivery or receipt of the notice businesses in the hospitality and retailing sectors.
Compliance with are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the business the National Minimum Wage Act is being monitored by the Low Pay to be transacted.
The Board of Directors may, if they choose, make Commission, an independent statutory body established by the arrangements for shareholders who are unable to attend the place UK government.
of the meeting to participate at other places.
None of the Groups UK employees are covered by collective The Articles specify that each Director shall retire every three years bargaining agreements with trade unions.
at the AGM and, unless otherwise decided by the Directors, shall be Continual attention is paid to the external market in order to ensure eligible for re-election.
However, the Code recommends that all that terms of employment are appropriate.
The Group believes the directors of FTSE 350 companies submit themselves for election Group companies will be able to conduct their relationships with trade or re-election as appropriate by shareholders every year.
Therefore, unions and employees in a satisfactory manner.
all Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM, other than Jennifer Laing and Ying Yeh who will not offer themselves for re-election and will retire immediately after the AGM.
162 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Material contracts Disposal of InterContinental Hong Kong On 10 July 2015, a share sale and purchase agreement was entered The following contracts have been entered into otherwise than in the into between Hotel InterContinental London Holdings Limited course of ordinary business by members of the Group: i in the two part of IHG and Supreme Key Limited.
Under the agreement, Hotel years immediately preceding the date of this document in the case of InterContinental London Holdings Limited agreed to sell Trifaith contracts which are or may be material: or ii that contain provisions Investments Limited, the owner of InterContinental Hong Kong under which any Group member has any obligation or entitlement that Limited, which in turn is the owner of InterContinental Hong Kong, is material to the Group as at the date of this document.
To the extent to Supreme Key Limited.
The gross sale proceeds agreed were that these agreements include representations, warranties and $938 million in cash.
The disposal completed on 30 September 2015. indemnities, such provisions are considered standard in an agreement of that nature, save to the extent identied below.
In connection with the sale, IHG secured a 37-year management contract on the hotel, with three 10-year extension rights at IHGs Disposal of 80 per cent interest in InterContinental New York Barclay discretion, giving an expected contract length of 67 years.
On 19 December 2013, Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC, which Under the agreement, Hotel InterContinental London Holdings is an afliate of Constellation Hotels Holding Limited, agreed to acquire, Limited gave certain customary warranties and indemnities to pursuant to a contribution agreement, an 80 per cent interest in a joint Supreme Key Limited.
venture with IHGs afliates to own and refurbish the InterContinental New York Barclay hotel.
The 80 per cent interest was acquired for gross 1.5 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme cash proceeds of $274 million.
IHGs afliates hold the remaining In 2015, the Group updated its Euro Medium Term Note programme 20 per cent interest.
The disposal was completed on 31 March 2014.
Programme and issued a tranche of 300 million 3.750% notes due IHGs management afliate has also secured a 30-year management 14 August 2025 2015 Issuance.
contract on the hotel, which commenced in 2014, with two 10-year On 16 June 2015, an amended and restated trust deed Trust Deed extension rights at IHGs discretion, giving an expected contract length was executed by InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as issuer Issuer, of 50 years.
Six Continents Limited and InterContinental Hotels Limited as Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC and IHGs afliates have agreed guarantors Guarantors and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK to invest through the joint venture in a significant refurbishment, Limited as trustee Trustee, pursuant to which the trust deed dated repositioning and extension of the hotel.
This commenced in 2014 27 November 2009, as supplemented by two supplemental trust deeds and will take place over a period of approximately 18 months.
dated 7 July 2011 and 9 November 2012 between the same parties relating to the Programme, were amended and restated.
Under the Under the contribution agreement, IHGs afliates gave certain Trust Deed, the Issuer may issue notes Notes unconditionally and customary warranties and indemnities to Constellation Barclay irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantors, up to a maximum nominal Holding US, LLC.
amount from time to time outstanding of 1.5 billion or its equivalent in other currencies.
Notes are to be issued in series each a Series Disposal of InterContinental Paris Le Grand in bearer form.
Each Series may comprise one or more tranches each On 7 December 2014, a share sale and purchase agreement was a Tranche issued on different issue dates.
Each Tranche of Notes will entered into between BHR Holdings B. V. part of IHG and Constellation be issued on the terms and conditions set out in the updated base Hotels France Grand SA.
Under the agreement, BHR Holdings B. V. prospectus dated 16 June 2015 Base Prospectus as amended and or agreed to sell Socit Des Hotels InterContinental France, the owner supplemented by a document setting out the final terms Final Terms of InterContinental Paris Le Grand, to Constellation Hotels France of such Tranche or in a separate prospectus specic to such Tranche.
The gross sale proceeds agreed were 330 million in cash.
The disposal was completed on 20 May 2015.
Under the Trust Deed, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors has given certain customary covenants in favour of the Trustee.
In connection with the sale, IHG secured a 30-year management contract on the hotel, with three 10-year extension rights at IHGs Final Terms were issued pursuant to the previous base prospectus discretion, giving an expected contract length of 60 years.
dated 27 November 2009 on 9 December 2009 in respect of the issue of a Tranche of 250 million 6% Notes due 9 December 2016 2009 Under the agreement, BHR Holdings B. V. gave certain customary Issuance.
Final Terms were issued pursuant to the previous base warranties and indemnities to Constellation Hotels France Grand SA.
prospectus dated 9 November 2009 on 26 November 2012 in respect of the issue of a Tranche of 400 million 3.875% Notes due 28 November Acquisition of the Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants business 2022 2012 Issuance.
Final Terms were issued pursuant to the Base On 15 December 2014, a share sale and purchase agreement was Prospectus on 12 August 2015 in respect of the 2015 Issuance.
entered into between Kimpton Group Holding LLC and Dunwoody Operations, Inc. an afliate of IHG.
Under the agreement, Dunwoody The Final Terms issued under each of the 2009 Issuance, 2012 Operations, Inc. agreed to buy Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC, Issuance and 2015 Issuance provide that the holders of the Notes the principal trading company of the Kimpton group, from Kimpton have the right to repayment if the Notes a become non-investment Group Holding LLC.
The purchase completed on 16 January 2015. grade within the period commencing on the date of announcement of a change of control and ending 90 days after the change of control The purchase price payable by Dunwoody Operations, Inc. in respect Change of Control Period and are not subsequently, within the of the acquisition was $430 million paid in cash.
Change of Control Period, reinstated to investment grade: b are Under the agreement, Dunwoody Operations, Inc. gave certain downgraded from a non-investment grade and are not reinstated to customary warranties and indemnities to the seller.
its earlier credit rating or better within the Change of Control Period: or c are not credit rated and do not become investment-grade credit rated by the end of the Change of Control Period.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 163 Group information continued Further details of the Programme and the Notes are set out in the Legal proceedings Base Prospectus, a copy of which is available as is a copy of each of the Group companies have extensive operations in the UK, as well as Final Terms dated 7 December 2009 relating to the 2009 Issuance, the internationally, and are involved in a number of legal claims and Final Terms dated 26 November 2012 relating to the 2012 Issuance and proceedings incidental to those operations.
It is the Companys view the Final Terms dated 12 August 2015 relating to the 2015 Issuance on that such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, have not the Companys website at www.
The Notes issued pursuant in the recent past and are not likely to have a significant effect on the to the 2009 Issuance, the Notes issued pursuant to the 2012 Issuance Groups financial position or profitability.
Notwithstanding the above, and the Notes issued pursuant to the 2015 Issuance are referred to as the Company notes the matters set out below.
Litigation is inherently 250 million 6% bonds, 400 million 3.875% bonds and 300 million unpredictable and, as of 22 February 2016, the outcome of these 3.750% bonds respectively in the Group Financial Statements.
matters cannot be reasonably determined.
On 16 June 2015, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into an A claim was led on 9 July 2013 by Pan-American Life Insurance amended and restated agency agreement Agency Agreement with Company against Louisiana Acquisitions Corp. and InterContinental HSBC Bank plc as principal paying agent and the Trustee, pursuant Hotels Corporation.
The claimant identied eight causes of action: to which the Issuer and the Guarantors appointed paying agents and breach of contract: breach of partnership, duciary duties and good calculation agents in connection with the Programme and the Notes.
faith obligations: fraud: civil conspiracy: conversion: unfair trade Under the Agency Agreement, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors practices: unjust enrichment: and alter ego.
As of 22 February 2016, has given a customary indemnity in favour of the paying agents and the likelihood of a favourable or unfavourable result cannot be the calculation agents.
reasonably determined and it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
On 16 June 2015, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into a dealer agreement Dealer Agreement with HSBC Bank plc as arranger and On 31 July 2012, the UKs Ofce of Fair Trading OFT issued a Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Statement of Objections alleging that the Company together with Merrill Lynch International, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc Booking.
com B. V. and Expedia, Inc. had infringed competition law and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as dealers Dealers, pursuant to in relation to the online supply of room-only hotel accommodation which the Dealers were appointed in connection with the Programme by online travel agents.
The Group co-operated fully with the and the Notes.
On 31 January 2014, the OFT announced its decision to accept a series of commitments and to conclude its investigation Under the Dealer Agreement, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors has without any nding of infringement or wrongdoing, or the imposition given customary warranties and indemnities in favour of the Dealers.
On 26 September 2014, the Competition Appeal Tribunal allowed an appeal brought by Skyscanner Limited and quashed the Syndicated Facility decision to accept the commitments.
On 16 September 2015 the On 30 March 2015, the Company signed a five-year $1.275 billion bank Competition and Markets Authority, as the successor organisation facility agreement Syndicated Facility with Bank of America Merrill to the OFT, closed its investigation without any nding of infringement Lynch International Limited, Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank PLC, by the Company.
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, all acting as joint bookrunners and A class-action claim was led on 3 July 2012 by two claimants alleging The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd as facility agent.
The Company that InterContinental Hotels of San Francisco, Inc. and InterContinental may request to extend the term of the Syndicated Facility by up to two Hotels Group Resources, Inc. violated California Penal Code 632.7, further periods of 12 months.
based upon the alleged improper recording of cellular phone calls originating from California to IHG customer care and reservations The interest margin payable on borrowings under the Syndicated centres.
The claimants subsequently amended the claim to include Facility is linked to IHGs consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA Six Continents Hotels, Inc.
The parties entered into a settlement ratio.
The margin can vary between LIBOR 0.40% and LIBOR 1.00% agreement to resolve all class claims, and on 8 February 2016, depending on the level of the ratio.
The Syndicated Facility was the Court issued an order granting approval of the settlement.
$400 million term loan facility On 13 January 2015, the Company signed a six-month $400 million term loan facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as arranger, facility agent and lender.
The Company may elect to extend the repayment date by up to two further periods of six months.
The interest margin payable on borrowings is LIBOR 0.6%, increasing to LIBOR 0.8% and LIBOR 1.0% for the first and second six-month extension periods respectively.
The facility was terminated in August 2015.
164 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
