Glossary adjusted comparable RevPAR fee margin or fee-based margin excluding the effect of exceptional items a comparison for a grouping of hotels that operating profit as a percentage of revenue, and any relevant tax.
have traded in all months in both financial excluding revenue and operating profit from years being compared.
Principally excludes owned and leased hotels, managed leases, ADR new hotels, hotels closed for major Kimpton, and significant liquidated damages.
an American Depositary Receipt, being refurbishment and hotels sold in either a receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
fee revenue of the two years.
Group revenue excluding revenue from ADR Depositary JPMorgan constant currency owned and leased hotels, managed leases, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. a current-year value translated using and significant liquidated damages.
ADS the previous years exchange rates.
franchisee an American Depositary Share as evidenced contingencies an operator who uses a brand under licence by an ADR, being a registered negotiable liabilities that are contingent upon from the brand owner, IHG.
security, listed on the New York Stock the occurrence of one or more uncertain Exchange, representing one ordinary share goodwill future events.
265 of 15 329 pence each of the Company.
the difference between the consideration continuing operations given for a business and the total of the fair AGM operations not classied as discontinued.
values of the separable assets and liabilities Annual General Meeting of InterContinental comprising that business.
currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, Group or IHG AMEA each denominated in a different currency, the Company and its subsidiaries.
Asia, Middle East and Africa.
for an agreed period of time.
Guest Heartbeat Annual Report derivatives IHGs guest satisfaction measurement tool The Annual Report and Form 20F financial instruments used to reduce risk, the used to measure brand preference and in relation to the years ending price of which is derived from an underlying guest satisfaction.
Guest Reservation System or GRS APP direct channels our global electronic guest reservation Annual Performance Plan.
methods of booking hotel rooms both digital system, currently HOLIDEX, IHGs Articles and voice not involving third party proprietary system.
the Articles of Association of the Company intermediaries.
hedging for the time being in force.
Director the reduction of risk, normally in relation to average daily rate a director of InterContinental Hotels foreign currency or interest rate movements, rooms revenue divided by the number Group PLC.
EBIT hotel revenue basic earnings per ordinary share earnings before interest and tax.
revenue from all revenue-generating activity profit available for IHG equity holders divided undertaken by managed and owned and EBITDA by the weighted average number of ordinary leased hotels, including room nights, food earning before interest, tax, depreciation shares in issue during the year.
capital expenditure IASB Employee Engagement survey purchases of property, plant and equipment, International Accounting Standards Board.
we ask our employees and those who work intangible assets, associate and joint venture in our managed hotels excluding our joint ICETUS investments, and other financial assets.
venture hotels to participate in a survey to InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme.
cash-generating units CGUs measure employee engagement.
IC Plan the smallest identiable groups of assets EU InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan.
that generate cash inows that are largely the European Union.
independent of the cash inows from other IFRS assets or groups of assets.
euro or International Financial Reporting Standards the currency of the European Economic as adopted by the EU and issued by the IASB.
UK Corporate Governance Code issued in indirect channels September 2014 by the Financial Reporting exceptional items online travel intermediaries and business Council in the UK.
items that are disclosed separately and leisure travel agents.
because of their size or nature.
Companies Act interest rate swap the Companies Act 2006, as amended from extended-stay an agreement to exchange xed for oating time to time.
hotels designed for guests staying for periods interest rate streams or vice versa on a of time longer than a few nights and tending notional principal.
Company to have a higher proportion of suites than InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
liquidated damages normal hotels Staybridge Suites and payments received in respect of the early Candlewood Suites.
termination of franchise and management contracts, where applicable.
176 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LTIP royalties US Deferred Compensation Plan Long Term Incentive Plan.
fees, based on rooms revenue, that the Dened Contribution Deferred a franchisee pays to the brand owner Compensation Plan.
managed leases for use of the brand name.
properties structured for legal reasons US dollars, US$, $ or as operating leases but with the same SEC the currency of the United States of America.
US Securities and Exchange Commission.
working capital management contract Six Continents the sum of inventories, receivables and a contract to operate a hotel on behalf Six Continents Limited: previously Six payables of a trading nature, excluding of the hotel owner.
Continents PLC and re-registered as a nancing and taxation items.
private limited company on 6 June 2005. market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company sterling or pounds sterling, pence or p by multiplying its share price by the number the pound sterling, the currency of the of shares in issue.
net debt subsidiary undertaking borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, a company over which the Group including the exchange element of the exercises control.
fair value of currency swaps hedging System the borrowings.
hotels rooms operating under franchise net rooms supply and management agreements together net total number of IHG hotel rooms.
with IHG owned and leased hotels rooms, globally the IHG System or on a regional NYSE basis, as the context requires.
System contribution to revenue occupancy rate per cent of rooms revenue delivered rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed through IHGs direct and indirect systems as a percentage of rooms that are available.
ordinary share System Fund or Fund from 9 October 2012 until 30 June 2014, the assessment fees and contributions collected 194 ordinary shares of 14 329 pence each in the from hotels within the IHG System for the Company: and from 1 July 2014, the ordinary specic use of marketing, the IHG Rewards 265 shares of 15 329 pence each in the Company.
Club loyalty programme and the global owner reservation system.
the ultimate owner of a hotel property.
technology fee income pipeline income received from hotels under franchise hotels rooms that will enter the IHG System and management agreements for the use at a future date.
A new hotel only enters of IHGs Guest Reservation System.
the pipeline once a contract has been total gross revenue signed and the appropriate fees paid.
total rooms revenue from franchised hotels In rare circumstances, a hotel will not and total hotel revenue from managed, open for reasons such as the nancing owned and leased hotels.
Other than owned being withdrawn.
and leased hotels, it is not revenue wholly ppt attributable to IHG, as it is mainly derived a percentage point is the unit for the from hotels owned by third parties.
arithmetic difference of two percentages.
Total Shareholder Return or TSR revenue management the theoretical growth in value of a the employment of pricing and segment shareholding over a period, by reference strategies to optimise the revenue generated to the beginning and ending share price, from the sale of room nights.
and assuming that dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested to revenue per available room or RevPAR purchase additional units of the equity.
rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights that are available can be UK mathematically derived from occupancy the United Kingdom.
rate multiplied by average daily rate.
UK GAAP room count United Kingdom Generally Accepted number of rooms franchised, managed, Accounting Practice.
US rooms revenue the United States of America.
revenue generated from the sale US 401 k Plan of room nights.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 177
