Forward-looking statements The Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 contains certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of InterContinental Hotels Group and certain plans and objectives of the Board of Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC with respect thereto.
Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements made in the Chairmans Statement and in the Chief Executive Officers Review.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by InterContinental Hotels Groups management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: the risks of political and economic developments: the risk of events that adversely impact domestic or international travel: the risks of the hotel industry supply-and-demand cycle: the Group being subject to a competitive and changing industry: the Groups exposure to risks related to executing and realising benefits from strategic transactions, including acquisitions: the Groups dependence upon a wide range of external stakeholders and business partners: the Groups exposure to increasing competition from online travel agents and intermediaries: the risks related to identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements: the risks in relation to changing technology and systems: the Groups reliance on the reputation of its brands and is exposed to inherent reputation risks: the Groups exposure to risks associated with its intellectual property: the risks involved in the Groups reliance upon its reservation system and other key technology platforms, and the risks that could cause the failure of these systems: the risks associated with safety, security and crisis management: the ability to acquire and retain the right people, skills and capability to manage growth and change: the risks associated with the Groups financial stability and its ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: the risk of litigation: the risks related to information security and data privacy: compliance with existing and changing regulations and societal expectations across numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions: and the risks associated with insuring its business.
The main factors that could affect the business and financial results are described in the Strategic Report of the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015.
Designed and produced by Addison Group www.
net Managed by RR Donnelley This Report is printed on Satimatt Green which is manufactured using 75% post-consumer recycled fibre and 25% FSC certified virgin fibre.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are ISO 14001 and FSC certified.
180 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Web www.
com A different way to stay above The lobby and front desk of The Kimpton Goodland, in Goleta, near Santa Barbara CA.
Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants In January 2015, InterContinental Hotels Group acquired Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants, the worlds leading boutique hotel business.
San Francisco-based Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants is a leading collection of boutique hotels and restaurants and the acknowledged industry pioneer that first introduced the boutique hotel concept to the United States.
The award-winning restaurants and bars are led by talented chefs and bartenders that offer guests a chance to dine like a local.
