Accounting policies General information The assets, liabilities and results of those businesses acquired or This document constitutes the Annual Report and Financial disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they were Statements in accordance with UK Listing Rules requirements and under the Groups control.
the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the US Securities The Group operates a deferred compensation plan in the US which Exchange Act of 1934. allows certain employees to make additional provision for retirement, The Consolidated Financial Statements of InterContinental Hotels through the deferral of salary with matching company contributions.
Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2015 Employees can draw down on the plan in certain limited circumstances were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the during employment.
The assets of the plan are held in a companyDirectors on 22 February 2016.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC owned trust which is not consolidated as the relevant activity of the the Company is incorporated and domiciled in Great Britain and trust, being the investment of the funds in the trust, is directed by the registered in England and Wales.
participating employees of the plan and the company has no exposure to the gains and losses resulting from those investment decisions.
Summary of significant accounting policies The assets of the trust are held solely for the benefit of the participating Basis of preparation employees and to pay plan expenses, other than in the case of a The Consolidated Financial Statements of IHG have been prepared on company insolvency in which case they can be claimed by the general a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except creditors of the company.
At 31 December 2015, the trust had assets for available-for-sale equity securities and derivatives which are with a fair value of $148m 2014 $148m.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have Foreign currencies been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to functional Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB and in accordance with IFRS currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions.
asadopted by the European Union EU and as applied in accordance Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by retranslated to the functional currency at the relevant rates of exchange the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
ruling on the last day of the period.
Foreign exchange differences arising However, the differences have no impact on the Consolidated Financial on translation are recognised in the income statement except on foreign Statements for the years presented.
currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group has adopted Amendments foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency translation to IAS 19 Dened benefit Plans: Employee Contributions, and Annual reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle and 2011 2013 Cycle.
recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
The adoption of these amendments has had no material impact on The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, the Consolidated Financial Statements.
are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange ruling The Group adopted Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of foreign Amendments to IAS 32 in 2014, resulting in restatements of 2013 operations are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange cash and cash equivalents and current loans and other borrowings, for the period.
The exchange differences arising on retranslation are which both increased by $114m with no impact to the net financial taken directly to the currency translation reserve.
On disposal of a position of the Group.
foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that particular foreign operation is Presentational currency recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions of US dollars reecting the prole of the Groups revenue and Property, plant and equipment operating profit which are primarily generated in US dollars Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation or US dollar-linked currencies.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, equity share capital, Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
the capital redemption reserve and shares held by employee share Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment trusts are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange on the are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful last day of the period: the resultant exchange differences are recorded lives, namely: in other reserves.
buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and The functional currency of the parent company is sterling since this is xtures, ttings and equipment three to 25 years.
a non-trading holding company located in the United Kingdom that has All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value sterling denominated share capital and whose primary activity is the is re-assessed annually.
payment and receipt of sterling dividends and of interest on sterling denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not Basis of consolidation be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent cash ows The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying values exceed Statements of the parent company and entities controlled by the their estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating Group.
Control exists when the Group has: units are written down to the recoverable amount.
Recoverable power over an investee ie existing rights that give it the current amount is the greater of fair value less costs of disposal and value in ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated future cash ows exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that with the investee: and reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
the risks specic to the asset.
Impairment losses, and any subsequent All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated reversals, are recognised in the income statement.
94 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of Other intangible assets property, plant and equipment which are included at deemed cost Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and as permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line Reporting Standards.
basis over their estimated useful lives, being the full contractual term, up to a maximum of 50 years.
Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, identiable assets and liabilities Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or acquired are measured at their fair value.
Contingent liabilities changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may assumed are measured at fair value unless this cannot be measured not be recoverable.
reliably, in which case they are not recognised but are disclosed in Borrowing costs the same manner as other contingent liabilities.
The measurement of Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising on acquisition is as described property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects that in the general principles detailed within the Taxes accounting policy necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their note on page 96 with the exception that no deferred tax is provided intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
on taxable temporary differences in connection with the initial Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs recognition of goodwill.
in connection with the borrowing of funds.
All borrowing costs relating Goodwill is recorded at cost, being the difference between the fair to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 were expensed.
value of the consideration and the fair value of net assets acquired.
Associates and joint ventures Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant inuence.
accumulated impairment losses and is not amortised.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing operating policy decisions of the entity, but is not control or joint control carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable over those policies.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
A joint venture exists when two or more parties have joint control over, Transaction costs are expensed and are not included in the cost and rights to the net assets of, the venture.
Joint control is the of acquisition.
contractually agreed sharing of control which only exists when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent Intangible assets of the parties sharing control.
Brands Externally acquired brands are initially recorded at cost if separately Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method acquired or fair value if acquired as part of a business combination, unless the associate or joint venture is classied as held for sale.
Under provided the brands are controlled through contractual or other legal the equity method, the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted rights, or are separable from the rest of the business, and the fair by the Groups share of post-acquisition profits and losses and other value can be reliably measured.
Brands are amortised over their movements in the investees reserves.
When the Groups share of estimated useful lives and tested for impairment if there are losses exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, the Groups indicators of impairment or tested for impairment at least annually carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses is if determined to have indefinite lives.
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate The costs of developing internally generated brands are expensed or joint venture.
Financial assets Management contracts The Group classies its financial assets into one of the two following Management contracts acquired as part of a business combination categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale financial assets.
are initially recorded at the fair value attributed to those contracts Management determines the classication of financial assets on initial on acquisition.
recognition and they are subsequently held at amortised cost loans and When hotel assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or receivables or fair value available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part of on loans and receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the contract method and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses The value of management contracts is amortised on a straight-line reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments basis over the life of the contract including any extension periods at recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Dividends IHGs option up to a maximum of 50 years.
from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the income Software statement as other operating income and expenses.
Acquired and internally developed software are capitalised on the Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end date.
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic In the case of an equity investment classied as available-for-sale, a software.
Costs are amortised over estimated useful lives of three significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is evidence that to five years on a straight-line basis.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast the difference between original cost and fair value is transferred from revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, in which equity to the income statement to the extent of any cumulative loss case they are capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful life recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the income of the asset.
Subsequent impairment reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are recorded in equity.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 95 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Derivative financial instruments and hedging Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less provision Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% of the at fair value.
The method of recognising the re-measurement depends previous months aged receivables balances which are more than 180 on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may be made due to specic if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The carrying amount of the receivable Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow hedges is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in are recorded in other comprehensive income and the unrealised gains the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost of and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
When a previously provided trade receivable is uncollectable, the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative gains and losses on the it is written off against the provision.
related hedging instrument are reclassied to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net investment Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the currency Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an translation reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
The original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible cumulative gains and losses remain in equity until a foreign operation to known amounts of cash and subject to insignicant risk of changes is sold, at which point they are reclassied to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not In the statement of cash ows, cash and cash equivalents are shown beendesignated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form portion of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of any Assets held for sale hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the hedge Assets and liabilities are classied as held for sale when their carrying relationship.
amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps is than continuing use and a sale is highly probable and expected to recorded in either financial income or expenses over the term of the complete within one year.
For a sale to be highly probable, management agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the hedging need to be committed to a plan to sell the asset and the asset must be relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Self insurance Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected settlements Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
are estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data.
Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment Provisions classied as held for sale.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Financial liabilities as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be made Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can bemade.
If the effect interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised when the of the time value of money is material, theprovision is discounted using obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or is cancelled.
a current pre-tax discount rate that reects the risks specic to the liability.
Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable is reported in the Group statement of financial position if there is a costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and benets expected to be received under it.
there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and In respect of litigation, provision is made when management consider settle the liabilities simultaneously.
To meet these criteria, the right of it probable that payment may occur even though the defence of the set-off must not be contingent on a future event and must be legally related claim may still be ongoing through the court process.
enforceable in all of the following circumstances: the normal course of business, the event of default and the event of insolvency or bankruptcy Taxes of the Group and all of the counterparties.
Current tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Trade payables periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates and tax laws nominal value.
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively Bank and other borrowings enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of Deferred tax the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value including the transaction costs and any discount or premium on issue, of assets and liabilities including accelerated capital allowances, are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from subsidiaries, gains rate method.
rolled over into replacement assets, gains on previously revalued Borrowings are classied as non-current when the repayment date properties and other short-term temporary differences.
is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
96 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded Franchise fees received in connection with the licence of the Groups as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be realised.
brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is re-assessed at the end The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of rooms of each reporting period.
Revenue is recognised when the fee is earned in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based on rates Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, generally a percentage of hotel revenue, which is Retirement benets recognised when earned in accordance with the terms of the contract Dened contribution plans and an incentive fee, generally based on the hotels profitability or cash Payments to dened contribution schemes are charged to the income ows and recognised when the related performance criteria are met statement as they fall due.
under the terms of the contract.
Dened benefit plans Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, including Plan assets, including qualifying insurance policies, are measured the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned and leased at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
Revenue is recognised using the projected unit credit method and discounting at an interest when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Franchise fees and management fees include liquidated damages The difference between the value of plan assets and liabilities at the received from the early termination of contracts.
period-end date is the amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the Other revenues are recognised when earned in accordance with the statement of financial position as an asset or liability.
An asset is terms of the contract.
recognised when the employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some point during the life of the plan or on its wind-up.
If a Government grants refund would be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case Government grants are recognised in the period to which they relate in the UK, the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received is also recorded for any such tax that would be payable in respect of and that the Group will comply with the attached conditions.
funding commitments based on the accounting assumption that the Government grants are recognised within other operating income related payments increase the asset.
and expenses in the Group income statement.
The service cost of providing pension benets to employees, together Share-based payments with the net interest expense or income for the year, is charged to The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured the income statement within administrative expenses.
Net interest by reference to fair value at the date at which the right to the shares is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net dened benefit is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using option asset or liability, after any asset restriction.
Past service costs and pricing models.
gains, which are the change in the present value of the dened benefit The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with obligation for employee service in prior periods resulting from plan a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which any amendments, are recognised immediately the plan amendment performance or service conditions are fullled, ending on the date occurs.
Settlement gains and losses, being the difference between on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the settlement cost and the present value of the dened benefit vesting date.
obligations being settled, are recognised when the settlement occurs.
The income statement charge for a period represents the movement in Re-measurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest and No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except changes in the amount of any asset restrictions.
Actuarial gains for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting and losses may result from: differences between the actuarial condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other during the year or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
valuation of the plan liabilities.
Re-measurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in other comprehensive income Leases and are not reclassied to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Actuarial valuations are carried out on a regular basis and are updated for material transactions and other material changes in circumstances Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group including changes in market prices and interest rates up to the end substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of of the reporting period.
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased Revenue recognition asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services where Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease these activities give rise to economic benets received and receivable liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve by the Group on its own account and result in increases in equity.
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter management fees: owned and leased properties and other revenues of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including technology fee income.
Revenue is recorded excluding VAT and similar taxes net of discounts.
The following is a description of the composition of revenues of the Group: IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 97 Accounting policies continued Disposal of non-current assets Critical accounting policies and the use of judgements, The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain or loss on estimates and assumptions disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining whether In determining and applying the Groups accounting policies, the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers whether it: management are required to make judgements, estimates and has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree associated assumptions.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if its with asset ownership: selection or application could materially affect the reported amounts has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities with asset ownership: and at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Management consider accounting for the System Fund to be a critical judgement Fair value measurement and that critical estimates and assumptions are used in impairment The Group measures available-for-sale equity securities and testing and for measuring the value of intangible assets acquired in derivatives at fair value on a recurring basis and other assets when business combinations, the loyalty programme liability and litigation impaired by reference to fair value less costs of disposal.
Additionally, provisions, as discussed in further detail below.
Estimates and the fair value of other financial assets and liabilities require disclosure.
assumptions are evaluated by management using historical Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid experience and other factors believed to be reasonable based on to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market current circumstances.
Actual results could differ under different participants.
Fair value is measured by reference to the principal policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions or due to market for the asset or liability assuming that market participants unforeseen circumstances.
act in their economic best interests.
System Fund in addition to management or franchise fees, hotels The fair value of a non-financial asset assumes the asset is used within the IHG System other than for Kimpton and InterContinental in its highest and best use, either through continuing ownership hotels pay cash assessments and contributions which are collected or by selling it.
by IHG for specic use within the System Fund the Fund.
The Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of IHG Rewards Club points.
IHG The Group uses valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant exerts significant inuence over the operation of the Fund, however observable inputs using the following valuation hierarchy: the Fund is managed for the benefit of hotels in the System with the Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical objective of driving revenues for the hotels.
The Fund is used to pay for assets or liabilities.
marketing, the IHG Rewards Club loyalty programme and the Guest Reservation System.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, statement of financial position within working capital.
As all Fund income is designated for specic purposes and does not Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and therefore market data.
the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group Further disclosures on the particular valuation techniques used by income statement.
theGroup are provided in note 23.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the For impairment testing purposes and where significant assets such as appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position as property are valued by reference to fair value less costs of disposal, an the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with external valuation will normally be obtained using professional valuers the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the IHG Rewards Club who have appropriate market knowledge, reputation and independence.
liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
Exceptional items The Group discloses certain financial information both including and The cash ows relating to the Fund are reported within cash ow excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information excluding from operations in the Group statement of cash ows due to the exceptional items allows a better understanding of the underlying close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations trading performance of the Group and provides consistency with the of the Group.
Exceptional items are Further information on the Fund is included in note 32. identied by virtue of either their size or nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess underlying trends in Loyalty programme the hotel loyalty programme, IHG Rewards Club, financial performance.
Exceptional items can include, but are not enables members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded hotel and redeem points charges and reversals and restructuring costs.
at a later date for free accommodation or other benets.
The future redemption liability is calculated by multiplying the number of points Treasury shares expected to be redeemed before they expire by the redemption cost per Own shares repurchased by the Company and not cancelled treasury point.
On an annual basis the Group engages an external actuary who shares are recognised at cost and deducted from retained earnings.
uses statistical formulae to assist in the estimate of the number If reissued, any excess of consideration over purchase price is of points that will never be redeemed breakage.
Following the recognised in the share premium reserve.
introduction of a points expiration policy, breakage has become more judgemental due to there being limited historical data on the impact of such a change.
Actuarial gains and losses on the future redemption liability are borne by the System Fund and any resulting changes in the liability would correspondingly adjust the amount of short-term timing surpluses and deficits held in the Group statement of financial position.
98 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The future redemption liability, which is included in trade and Litigation from time to time, the Group is subject to legal other payables, was $649m at 31 December 2015.
Based on the proceedings the ultimate outcome of each being always subject conditions existing at the balance sheet date, a one percentage point to many uncertainties inherent in litigation.
A provision for litigation decrease in the breakage estimate would increase this liability by is made when it is considered probable that a payment will be made approximately $10m.
and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
significant judgement is made when evaluating, amongst other factors, the Kimpton acquisition The Group acquired Kimpton Hotel and probability of unfavourable outcome and the ability to make a Restaurant Group, LLC Kimpton on 16 January 2015 and has reasonable estimate of the amount of potential loss.
Litigation recognised the identiable assets and liabilities acquired at fair value, provisions are reviewed at each accounting period and revisions with the difference between the fair value of net assets acquired and made for changes in facts and circumstances.
the fair value of consideration paid as goodwill.
The most significant assets acquired were intangible assets and the Group engaged an New standards issued but not effective independent valuation specialist to assist with their identication The new and amended accounting standards discussed below are and valuation.
The Group assessed the competence, capabilities and those which are expected to be relevant to the Groups Financial objectivity of the specialist, as well as the reasonableness of their Statements.
conclusions having regard to the key assumptions including forecast cash ows, discount rates, royalty rates and long-term growth rates.
From 1 January 2016, the Group will apply the amendments to As a result of the valuation exercise, management contract assets of existing standards arising from the Annual Improvements to IFRSs $71m, brand assets of $193m and goodwill of $167m were recognised.
The management contracts were valued using an excess earnings From 1 January 2016, the Group will apply Amendments to IAS 16 approach and the brands using the relief-from-royalty method.
A and IAS 38 clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 10% reduction in the EBITDA margin applied to forecast management and Amortisation, Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisition contract fees would have reduced the management contract valuation of Interests in Joint Operations, and Amendments to IAS 1 by $17m and a 0.5 percentage point increase in the assumed royalty Disclosure Initiative.
rate would have increased the brand valuation by $97m, with corresponding adjustments to the amount of goodwill recognised.
The Group will also apply Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint For the reasons set out in note 13 to the accounts, the brands have Venture on the effective date of these amendments, which have been been deemed to have an indefinite life.
Impairment testing intangible assets with definite useful lives, and The above amendments are not expected to have a material impact property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events on the Groups reported performance or financial position.
or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers introduces a new are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis or more frequently five-step approach to measuring and recognising revenue and is if there are indicators of impairment.
Assets that do not generate effective from 1 January 2018. independent cash ows are combined into cash-generating units.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued as a final standard in July The impairment testing of individual assets or cash-generating units 2014 and is effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard introduces requires an assessment of the recoverable amount of the asset or new requirements for classication and measurement of financial cash-generating unit.
If the carrying value of the asset or cashassets and financial liabilities, impairment and hedge accounting.
generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount, the asset IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and is effective from or cash-generating unit is written down to its recoverable amount.
The standard eliminates the classication of leases as Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs of disposal either operating or finance leases and introduces a single accounting and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated future model.
Lessees will be required to recognise assets and liabilities in cash ows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount respect of the minimum lease payment for all leases with a term of rate that is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital more than 12 months, and show depreciation of leased assets and adjusted to reect the risks specic to the business model and interest on lease liabilities separately in the income statement.
territory of the cash-generating unit or asset being tested.
The outcome of such an assessment is subjective, and the result sensitive The Group is currently assessing the impacts of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 to the assumed future cash ows to be generated by the cashand IFRS 16 and plans to adopt these standards on the required generating units or assets and discount rates applied in calculating effective dates.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had goodwill of $233m and brands of $193m, both of which are subject to annual impairment testing.
Information on the impairment tests performed is included in note 13.
The Group also had property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets with a net book value of $428m and $800m respectively at 31 December 2015.
An impairment charge of $27m was recognised during the year in relation to two hotel properties in North America.
In respect of those assets requiring an impairment test and depending on how recoverable amount was assessed, a 10% reduction in fair value or estimated future cash ows would have resulted in a further impairment charge of $6m.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 99
