Additional Information Glossary segment revenue from the sale of ITV Broadcasters Audience Research ITV Family the ITV family of channels Studios shows to the ITV Network Board BARB organisation owned by which includes ITV, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, broadcasters and advertisers providing ITVBe, ITV Encore, CITV, ITV Breakfast, Ofcom independent regulator and data on linear and online television CITV Breakfast and all associated 1 competition authority for the UK viewing statistics by UK households andHD equivalents.
Viewing figures communications include the whole of the ITV network.
Revenue figures include only ITV plc Catch up viewing non-live viewing operated regions Over-the-top content OTT delivery ofrecently broadcast television of audio, video, and other media over programmes, either via a recording Linear television television service theInternet, this includes content device often called a PVR or DTR such where the viewer has to watch a fromproviders such as Netflix, Amazon as Sky or through a Video on Demand scheduled TV program at the particular and Hulu and also our own on demand service such as the ITV Hub, BBC iPlayer, time its offered, and on the particular service, the ITV Hub All 4 or Demand 5 channel its presented on SDN multiplex operator owned by ITV Channel 3 licences the 15 regional Long form video requests video which operates one of the eight national licences and one national licence requests are a measure of the total multiplex licences in the UK on Freeview awarded to transmit Channel 3 across number of videos viewed across all the UK.
All are owned by ITV with the platforms such as itv.
com, Virgin and Share of Broadcast SOB ITVs share exception of three of the regional mobile devices.
A long form video is a of UK television advertising revenue licences, two of which are owned by STV programme that has been broadcast on NAR, a measure of market share and one by UTV.
ITV completed the television and is available to watch acquisition of UTV on 29th February 2016 online and on demand in its entirety Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI the term used to define the share of Contract Rights Renewal CRR the Media sales commission commission total UK television commercial impacts remedy agreed by Carlton and Granada earned by ITV plc on sales of airtime on which is delivered by one channel in 2003 as a pre-condition of the merger, behalf of the non-consolidated licensees orgroup of channels.
This measure which governs the way in which ITV excludes viewing of BBC channels airtime is sold by ITV to its advertising Net Advertising Revenue NAR the customers asthey do not generate commercial amount of money received by a impacts.
Unless stated otherwise, SOCI broadcaster as payment for television Digital switchover termination figures cited throughout this report spot advertising net of any commission in2012 of the analogue terrestrial arebased on BARB data and are based paid to agencies television signal.
BBC1, BBC2, ITV, on the universe of Adults 16 Channel 4 and Channel 5 were broadcast Total Schedule Costs Total Network in analogue Share of Viewing SOV the share Programme Budget NPB the budget ofthe total viewing audience during a spent on programming broadcast on Free-to-Air FTA television viewing defined period gained by a programme theITV Family of channels, including of television through devices not or channel.
This measure includes spend on regional programming and requiring a subscription such as the viewing of BBC channels.
Unless stated ITVBreakfast Freeview or Freesat services otherwise, SOV figures cited throughout this report are based on BARB data and Non-consolidated licensees the High Definition HD channels or are based on the universe of individuals threeregional channel 3 licences which services broadcast in substantially ITV does not own.
These licences are higherresolution than standard, Video on Demand VOD the ability owned by STV and UTV and revenues providing improved picture quality todeliver video content to a customers received from these licences for ITV television set, computer or device when programming content are referred to as Impact or Commercial Impact one the customer requests it minority revenues.
ITV completed the Commercial Impact is defined as one acquisition of UTV on 29th February 2016 viewer watching one 30-second YouView a joint venture with the BBC, television commercial Channel 4, Channel 5, BT, TalkTalk, and Non-NAR revenue non-NAR revenue Arqiva to operate and promote a includes all ITV revenue, both internal hybridtelevision platform combining and external, except net advertising Freeview channels with catch up and revenue NAR.
This includes interondemand services 172 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 This Report is printed on UPM Fine SC which is made from virgin pulp fibres derived from FSC sustainable sources.
Theproducing mill also has ISO14001 accreditation, aswellasthe renown pan European EU EcoLabel.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks printing technology.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, ISO14001, EMAS and FSC certified.
Designed and produced by ITV plc The London Television Centre Upper Ground London SE1 9LT www.
