Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 1 General information Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on recoverable amount disclosures J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, on financial Exchange.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its instruments asset and liability offsetting registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT, United Kingdom.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 prior financial IFRIC 21, Levies year 52 weeks to 15 March 2014.
The consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 comprise the financial statements of the The Group and Company has concluded that the above new standards, Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups share of the interpretations and amendments are either not relevant to the Group and post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates.
Company or that they do not have a significant impact on the Group and Companys financial statements, apart from additional disclosure.
The Groups principal activities are grocery related retailing and retail banking.
There are no standards or revisions effective for the Group and Company for 2 Accounting policies the financial year beginning 15 March 2015. a Statement of compliance The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The following standards and revisions will be effective for future International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the periods: European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations IFRS 9, Financial instruments Committee IFRIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, on acquisition of an interest Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or in a joint operation statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation b Basis of preparation Amendment to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, on general hedge accounting The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements, on equity accounting million m unless otherwise stated.
They have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except for derivative Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and IAS 28, financial instruments, investment properties and available-for-sale financial Investments in associates and joint ventures on sale or contribution assets that have been measured at fair value.
ofassets Annual Improvements 2012 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires Annual Improvements 2013 theuse of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and The Bank is currently implementing a project to assess the impact of IFRS9 the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
and implement systems to ensure ongoing compliance with its requirements.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience The most significant impact on the Bank is likely to be in relation to impairment and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the methodology as a result of the move to the expected credit loss model.
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from The Group and Company has considered the impact of the remaining above other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The areas involving standards and revisions and has concluded that they will not have a a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and significant impact on the Group and Companys financial statements, apart estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2c.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements by In the prior year the Group acquired 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital the Group and the Company.
The acquisition accounting was on a provisional basis and has been finalised in the current financial year with no adjustment required.
Subsidiaries Amendments to published standards Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has Effective for the Group and Company in these financial rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the statements: ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of The Group and Company has considered the following new standards, subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition interpretations and amendments to published standards that are effective or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Intercompany forthe Group and Company for the financial year beginning 16 March 2014: transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated upon IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where IFRS 11, Joint arrangements necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss in the IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate financial statements financial statements of the Company.
IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12, on transition guidance 88 Financial Statements Sale of goods retail 2 Accounting policies continued Sales through retail outlets are shown net of returns, the cost of Nectar reward Business combinations points issued and redeemed, colleague discounts, vouchers and sales made The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business on an agency basis.
Commission income is recognised in revenue based on combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a the terms of the contract.
subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent services have been passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured The cost of Nectar points is treated as a deduction from sales and part of the initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any fair value of the consideration received is deferred and subsequently non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The fair value of the basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate points awarded is determined with reference to the fair value to the customer.
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business Interest receivable combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all instruments acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This fairvalue at the acquisition date through the income statement.
calculation takes into account interest receivable or payable and fees and commissions receivable or payable that are integral to the yield, as well as Joint ventures and associates incremental transaction costs.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the expected future cash flows over the expected life of the The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or liability at initial recognition.
joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and Sainsburys Bank fees and commissions determined them to be joint ventures.
The Groups share of the post-tax Fees and commissions, that are not integral to the effective interest rate results of its joint ventures and associates is included in the income calculation, are recognised in the income statement as services are provided.
statement using the equity method of accounting.
Where the Group transacts In the case of insurance commissions the income comprises an initial with a joint venture or associate, profits and losses are eliminated to the commission and profit share, both of which are recognised on completion of extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture or associate.
the service to the extent reliably measurable.
Where there is a risk of potential claw back, an appropriate element of the commission receivable is deferred Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group balance and amortised over the life of the underlying loan or period of claw back.
Car sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets insurance initial commission is recognised on completion of the service of the entity, less any provision for impairment.
provided, with an element deferred to reflect cancellation expectation and services yet to be performed in future periods.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Company balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
Finance income and costs Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement for control.
financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This calculation takes into account interest receivable or Investment properties held by the Group are those contained within its joint payable and fees and commissions receivable or payable that are integral to ventures with Land Securities Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC.
the yield, as well as incremental transaction costs.
For Sainsburys Bank, These are properties held for capital appreciation and or to earn rental finance cost on financial liabilities is determined using the effective interest income.
They are initially measured at cost, including related transaction method and is recognised in cost of sales.
After initial recognition at cost, they are carried at their fair values based on market value determined by professional valuers at each reporting Interest paid and interest received for the purpose of the cash flow statement date.
The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the is retail only.
reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in order Cost of sales to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including warehouse and of the Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
transportation costs and all the costs of operating retail outlets and, in the case of Sainsburys Bank, interest expense on operating activities, calculated In the prior financial year, Sainsburys Bank was accounted for as a 50 per using the effective interest method.
cent owned joint venture for the 46 weeks to 31 January 2014 and consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to Supplier income 28February 2014, as detailed in note 13.
In the current financial year, Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as supplier Sainsburys Bank is consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for income, are recognised within cost of sales on an accruals basis as they the12 months to 28 February 2015. areearned for each relevant supplier contract.
Theaccrued value at the reporting date is included in trade receivables or trade payables, depending Revenue on the right of offset.
Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and, in the case of Sainsburys Bank, interest receivable, fees and commissions and excludes Value Added Tax.
89 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued Acquired intangible assets 2 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair The most common types of supplier income, in order of magnitude, which value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with finite useful economic Sainsburys receives, are: lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for Discounts and supplier incentives, representing the majority of all supplier impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated income, linked to individual unit sales.
The incentive is typically based on useful economic lives, ranging from three to six years, within administrative an agreed sum per item sold on promotion for a period.
Fixed amounts agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store activity including promotions, such as utilising specific space.
Other intangible assets Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Supplier rebates are the smallest proportion of supplier income.
These are recognised provision for impairment and amortised on a straight-line basis typically agreed on an annual basis, aligned with the financial year and over the licence period of up to 15 years within cost of sales.
are earned based on pre-agreed targets, mainly linked to sales.
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and Property, plant and equipment any provision for impairment.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over Land and buildings their contractual useful economic lives within cost of sales.
Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment.
Capital work in progress is held at cost Impairment of non-financial assets less any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its purchase price of the asset and the costs incurred attributable to bringing the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether asset to its working condition for intended use.
This includes capitalised there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Ifany such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, being the higher of its fair value less costs to dispose and its value in use, is estimated in Fixtures and equipment order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the the asset belongs.
For retail property, plant and equipment and intangible asset to its working condition and its intended use.
assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store or store pipeline development site.
For retail goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each Depreciation retail chain of stores acquired.
Sainsburys Bank is a separate CGU, and Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual non-store assets, including depots and IT assets, are reviewed separately.
values, on a straight-line basis, on the following bases: Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the lease term Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the year in ifshorter which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss Fixtures, equipment and vehicles three to 15 years ongoodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its Freehold land is not depreciated recoverable amount, or its original carrying value less notional accumulated depreciation if lower.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds less any Capitalisation of interest associated costs of disposal with the assets carrying amount and are Interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction recognised within operating profit.
The assets residual values and useful lives of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross of tax relief.
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Non-current assets held for sale Intangible assets Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the Computer software lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to dispose.
Non-current Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any assets held for sale are not depreciated.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to their useful economic lives of five to ten years.
Costs relating to development be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the recognition continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly criteria of IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met.
Other development expenditures probable and the asset is available-for-sale in its present condition.
A sale that do not meet these criteria are expensed as incurred.
When the software should be expected to complete within one year from the date of classification.
is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years within Leased assets administrative expenses.
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other Goodwill leases are classified as operating leases.
For property leases, the land and Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration of an building elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable classification.
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the year in which it arises, and is considered to have an indefinite useful life.
Goodwill is tested forimpairment annually and again whenever indicators of impairment are detected and is carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
90 Financial Statements 2 Accounting policies continued Current tax Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively Finance leases enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and income statement, except when it relates to items charged to equity or other equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease comprehensive income, in which case the current tax is also dealt with in term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair equity or other comprehensive income respectively.
value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The resulting lease Deferred tax obligations are included in liabilities net of finance charges.
Finance costs Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising onfinance leases are charged directly to the income statement.
from differences between the tax base and accounting base of assets andliabilities.
Operating leases Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the extent Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a straight-line basis over the lease term.
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
It is determined using tax Sale and leaseback rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with the income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction and whether or not the sale was made at the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future assets fair value.
taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the sale is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive from the sale is recognised immediately in the income statement.
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other comprehensive income respectively.
Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those principles described above.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures except where the Lease incentives Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rent-free and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of the foreseeable future.
Provisions Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental increases.
obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that an outflow These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the term of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and where the of the lease.
amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the Operating lease income obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant agreements and the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase is recognised as earned on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Inventories Onerous leases Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in the The need for provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental course of, development and are valued on a weighted average cost basis and income, is assessed when the leased property becomes vacant and is no carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value longer used in the operations of the business or when the leased property represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion relates to an unprofitable trading store.
Onerous lease provisions are and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cost includes recognised after any impairment of assets.
Provisions for dilapidation costs all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Onerous contracts Cash and cash equivalents Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised where expected cash outflows Cash and bank balances in the Group balance sheet comprise cash in hand exceed the anticipated future benefits.
The amounts provided are based on and at bank, deposits at central banks, investments in money market funds the Groups best estimate of the likely committed outflow net of anticipated and deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily future benefits and after any impairment of pipeline development site assets convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk where applicable.
Restructuring Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
91 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Employee benefits attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in Pensions equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes for its employees.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that Foreign currencies defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Foreign operations retirement.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated theGroup pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
The results of foreign operations aretranslated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the pension scheme Thefunctional currency of the Company is sterling.
surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined Foreign currency transactions benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the isactuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities method.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on The income statement charge consists of a financing charge, which is the translation are recognised in the income statement.
netof interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and interest income on plan assets and defined benefit pension scheme expenses.
The financing charge Financial instruments isdetermined by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined Financial assets benefit obligation to the pension scheme liabilities and plan assets at the The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair beginning of the financial year.
value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, and available-forsale AFS.
AFS investments are initially measured at fair value including Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an transaction costs.
Financial assets held at FVTPL are initially recognised at expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date fairvalue and transaction costs are expensed.
are included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading and those designated at FVTPL at inception.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading Long service awards unless they are accounted for as an effective hedging instrument.
Financial The costs of long service awards are accrued over the period the service is assets at FVTPL are recorded at fair value, withany fair value gains or losses provided by the employee when it is probable that settlement will be required recognised in the income statement in theperiod in which they arise.
and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities recognised in respect of long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group in respect of determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Group services provided by employees up to the reporting date.
has no intention of trading these loans and receivables.
They include amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and amounts due from other Share-based payments banks.
Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of the these assets are carried at amortised cost less impairment using the effective Groupin the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment interest method.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares, effective yield basis and is recognised in the income statement.
rights over shares or the value of those shares in cash terms.
AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this For equity-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Subsequent to initial recognition conditions.
All share options are valued using an option-pricing model at fair value plus transaction costs, these assets are recorded at fair value with Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This fair value is charged to the income the movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income until statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme.
the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is For cash-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the charge are recognised in the income statement when the entitys right to receive recognised through the income statement over the vesting period of the payment is established.
Interest on AFS debt instruments is recognised using share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding increase in accruals.
The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels of options fromthe financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in equity and accruals.
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the Trade receivables employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by atamortised cost using the effective interest method less provision reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as forimpairment.
an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
92 Financial Statements Impairment of financial assets 2 Accounting policies continued An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment is Loans and advances including impairment carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets at the balance Loans and advances are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest sheet date.
This assessment may be of individual assets individual method, less provision for impairment and recognised on the balance sheet impairment or of a portfolio of assets collective impairment.
A financial when cash is advanced.
asset or a group of financial assets is considered to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events For Sainsburys Banks portfolios of loans, such as credit card lending and that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that personal loans, impairment provisions are calculated for groups of assets, loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the otherwise impairment is identified at a counterparty specific level following financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
Such evidence may include a missed interest or principal payment or the breach of a banking For individual impairment the principal loss event is one or more missed covenant.
The present value of estimated cash flows recoverable is determined payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, after taking into account any security held.
The amount of impairment is including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual payments, calculated by comparing the present value of the cash flows discounted at fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.
An assessment the loans original effective interest rate with the balance sheet carrying value.
of collective impairment will be made of financial assets with similar risk If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted and the difference charged to the characteristics.
For these assets, portfolio loss experience is used to provide income statement and a provision recognised in the balance sheet.
The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded back to its net Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on loans and realisable balance over time using an effective interest rate.
This is reported receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the carrying value of through interest receivable within the income statement and represents the financial assets to the present value of estimated future cash flows unwinding of the discount.
discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
A write-off is made when all or part of a claim is deemed uncollectible or For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income forgiven.
Write-offs are charged against previously established provisions for statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made, together impairment or directly to the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
amounts written off decrease the charge for loan impairment in the income statement.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered An allowance for impairment losses is also maintained in respect of assets in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for which are impaired at the balance sheet date but which have not been available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss is removed from equity identified as such, based on historical loss experience and other relevant and recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative loss is measured as factors.
The methodology and assumptions used are regularly reviewed to the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less reduce any differences between estimates and actual results.
any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts, other deposits and amounts due to Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity Sainsburys Bank customers are recorded initially at fair value, which is instruments are not reversed.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a generally the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Subsequently, these debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can liabilities are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption the income statement.
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the written amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period down balance.
Interest is calculated using the rate of interest used to discount in which they arise.
the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Tothe extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in subsequent The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined periods, the recognition of interest will be based on the latest balance net of using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
Thisamount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of Fair value estimation theproceeds are allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values of andincluded in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects, and is financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 29. notsubsequently re-measured.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity components All derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at the date of issue.
contract date and are also measured at fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the derivative Trade payables financial instruments hedge the exchange rate risk of future highly probable Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency.
Changes in the fair amortised cost using the effective interest method.
value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
93 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment models are continually reviewed to ensure data and assumptions 2 Accounting policies continued are appropriate with the most material assumption being around expected Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the derivative loss rates.
The accuracy of any such impairment calculation will be affected financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value of a financial asset by unexpected changes to the economic situation, and assumptions which or liability due to movements in interest rates.
The changes in fair value of differ from actual outcomes.
As such, judgement is applied when determining the hedging instrument are recognised in the income statement.
The hedged item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk, with the corresponding adjustment made in the income statement.
Post-employment benefits The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The present To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents, at the inception of the value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date and the hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the relationship between the net financing charge recognised in the income statement are dependent on hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction and the nature of interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
Other key assumptions within the risks being hedged.
The Group also documents the assessment of the this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, effectiveness of the hedging relationship, to show that the hedge has been including mortality rates, as set out in note 30.
Any changes to assumptions and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
used will impact the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.
As detailed in note 30, the retirement benefit obligations are most sensitive Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not to changes in the discount rate.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as finance income or costs as they arise.
Provisions Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or Provisions have been made for onerous leases, onerous contracts, is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
dilapidations, restructuring and long service awards.
These provisions are At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until the on future events and market conditions.
Any difference between expectations forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive determination is made.
The carrying amount of provisions will be impacted income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
by changes in the discount rate.
Details of provisions are set out in note 22.
Offsetting financial instruments Income taxes Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation of in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the likely taxes due, which requires significant judgement as to the ultimate the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, tax determination of certain items.
Where the actual liability arising from or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally these issues differs from these estimates, such differences will have an enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be impact on income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period when such enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, determination is made.
Detail of the tax charge and deferred tax are set out insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
c Judgements and estimates Supplier income The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as supplier impact the application of policies and reported amounts.
The resulting income, represent a material deduction to cost of sales and directly affect the accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions Groups reported margin.
The supplier arrangements resulting in this supplier will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on income can be complex, with income spanning multiple products over historical experience and expectations of future events.
different time periods, and there can be multiple triggers and discounts.
Thethree key types are explained in the cost of sales accounting policy on The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a pages 89 and 90, and the level of judgement and estimation involved is significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements considered below: are discussed below.
Discounts and incentives linked to individual unit sales are calculated through a mechanical process with no judgement and estimation involved Goodwill impairment in recording the income received, which is collected in a timely manner The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment throughout the period.
loss, based on the recoverable amount of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined Arrangements for fixed amounts involve a degree of judgement and based on value in use calculations and these calculations require the use of estimation in ensuring the appropriate cut-off of arrangements for fixed estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as amounts which span period-end.
These require judgement to determine disclosed in note 12.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
when the terms of the arrangement are satisfied and that amounts are recognised in the correct period.
Impairment of assets other than goodwill Supplier rebates, which are agreed with a supplier on an annual basis, Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews based require estimates of the income earned up to the balance sheet date, on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their foreach relevant supplier contract.
Where agreements span a financial recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value.
Recoverable period-end, estimations are required of projected turnover and judgement amount is based on the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs may also need to be applied to determine the rebate level earned as to dispose.
Value in use is calculated from expected future cash flows using agreements may involve multiple tiers.
In order to minimise any risk suitable discount rates and includes management assumptions and arising from estimation, supplier confirmations are obtained to agree the estimates of future performance as disclosed in note 11. value to be recognised at year-end, prior to it being invoiced.
Rebates represent the smallest element of Sainsburys supplier income and by Impairment loss calculations on loans and advances within Sainsburys Bank aligning the agreements to Sainsburys financial year, where possible the note 17 b involve the estimation of future cash flows of financial assets, judgements required are minimised.
based on observable data at the balance sheet date and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
This will typically take into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience and default levels.
These calculations are undertaken on a portfolio basis using various statistical modelling techniques.
94 Financial Statements 3 Non-GAAP performance measures Certain items recognised in reported loss or profit before tax can vary significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported earnings which does not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Similarly, whilst defined benefit pension scheme expenses may not vary significantly, they no longer relate to the Groups ongoing activities given the closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The Directors believe that the underlying revenue, underlying profit before tax UPBT and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
The adjusted items are: Profit loss on disposal of properties: Investment property fair value movements these reflect the difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount at the previous reporting date: Retail financing fair value movements these are fair value gains and losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost, onderivatives relating to financing activities and on hedged items in fair value hedges: Impairment of goodwill: The financing element of IAS 19: Defined benefit pension scheme expenses: Acquisition adjustments these reflect the adjustments arising from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition including the fair value unwind, amortisation of acquired intangibles and, in the prior year, the remeasurement of the previously held equity interest in Sainsburys Bank: and One-off items these are items which are material and infrequent in nature and do not relate to the Groups underlying performance.
The adjustments made to reported loss profit before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are: 2015 2014 m m Underlying profit before tax 681 798 1 Profit on disposal of properties 7 52 Investment property fair value movements 7 2 Retail financing fair value movements 30 8 IAS 19 pension financing charge 31 23 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 6 7 3 Acquisition adjustments 13 18 One-off items 713 68 Total adjustments 753 100 Loss profit before tax 72 898 1 Profit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised 5 million for the Group 2014: 51 million and 2 million for the property joint ventures 2014: 1 million.
2 Retail financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised a 23 million loss for the Group 2014: 5 million loss and a 7 million loss for the joint ventures 2014: 3 million loss.
3 A cquisition adjustments include 23 million 2014: 3 million fair value unwind included in revenue, nil 2014: 15 million remeasurement of the previously held equity interest included in other income, 8 million 2014: 1 million fair value unwind included in cost of sales offset by 18 million 2014: 1 million acquired intangible amortisation included in administrative expenses.
The tax impact of adjusted items is included within note 8.
One-off items One-off items of 713 million includes: a non-cash impairment and onerous contract charge of 628 million: restructuring costs of 15 million: costs of 53million in relation to transitioning Sainsburys Bank to a new, more flexible banking platform: and 17 million of pension compensation payments.
As part of adapting to our changing customer needs, we have reassessed our store pipeline and the potential to achieve an appropriate return on capital, which resulted in a decision that some sites will no longer be developed.
A charge of 287 million has been recognised within administration expenses, including 256 million of property, plant and equipment, which is all land and buildings, 1 million of goodwill, and 30 million of onerous contract provisions.
A charge of 341 million has also been recognised, 310 million within cost of sales and 31 million within administrative expenses, in relation to unprofitable and marginally profitable trading stores.
This includes 284 million of property, plant and equipment, comprised of 156 million land and buildings and 128million of fixtures and fittings, 7 million intangible assets, comprised of 2 million goodwill and 5 million of other intangibles, and onerous lease provisions of 50 million.
The recoverable amount of these assets has been determined as the higher of value-in-use or fair value less costs to dispose.
Refer to notes 11 and 12 for further details of the impairment.
Compensation payments of 17 million were made in the current year to employees on transition to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes resulting from the closure of the Sainsburys defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual in the prior year.
The prior year credit to one-off items of 68 million included the impact of a past service credit net of compensation payments of 148 million as a result of the closure of the Sainsburys defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual: a store pipeline impairment of 92 million: costs of 45 million in relation to the Sainsburys Bank acquisition: a Nectar VAT upside of 76 million: and other one-off costs of 19 million mainly in relation to restructuring and a provision for a commercial item, for which we continue to defend our position.
95 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments: Retailing supermarkets and convenience : Financial services Sainsburys Bank : and Property investments joint ventures with the British Land Company PLC and Land Securities Group PLC.
Management have determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Group to make operational decisions on the management of the Group.
All material operations and assets are in the UK.
The business of the Group is not subject to highly seasonal fluctuations, although within retailing there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas.
As disclosed in notes 13 and 14, Sainsburys Bank was accounted for as a 50 per cent owned joint venture for the 46 weeks to 31 January 2014 and consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to 28 February 2014 and for the 2014 15 financial year.
Results for the periods pre and post the acquisition of the additional 50 per cent of shares in Sainsburys Bank are included in the financial services segment.
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the revenue number in the income statement.
Revenue is generated by the sale of goods and services, as set out in note 2.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
The Operating Board assesses the performance of all segments on the basis of underlying profit before tax.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit loss before tax.
Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 m m m m Segment revenue Retail sales to external customers 23,443 23,443 Financial services to external customers 309 309 Underlying revenue 23,443 309 23,752 1 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind 23 23 Revenue 23,443 332 23,775 Underlying operating profit 720 62 782 Underlying finance income 19 19 Underlying finance costs 126 126 Underlying share of post-tax loss profit from joint ventures and associates 9 15 6 Underlying profit before tax 604 62 15 681 Profit on disposal of properties 5 2 7 Investment property fair value movements 7 7 Retail financing fair value movements 23 7 30 IAS 19 pension financing charge 31 31 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 6 6 Acquisition adjustments 13 13 One-off items 660 53 713 Loss profit before tax 111 22 17 72 Income tax expense 94 Loss for the financial year 166 Assets 11,908 4,270 16,178 Investment in joint ventures and associates note 14 8 351 359 Segment assets 11,916 4,270 351 16,537 Segment liabilities 7,232 3,766 10,998 Other segment items 2 Capital expenditure 968 82 1,050 Depreciation expense note 11 540 5 545 3 Amortisation expense note 12 14 20 34 4 Impairment note 11 and 12 548 548 Share-based payments 21 21 1 Represents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition in 2013 14.
2 R etail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 951 million and intangible asset additions of 17 million.
Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 14 million and intangible asset additions of 68 million.
3 Amortisation expense within the financial services segment includes 18 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments.
4 Impairment charge includes 540 million recognised against property, plant and equipment and 8 million against intangible assets, as detailed in note 11 and note 12.
96 Financial Statements 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 m m m m Segment revenue Retail sales to external customers 23,921 23,921 Financial services to external customers 25 25 Underlying revenue 23,921 25 23,946 1 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind 3 3 Revenue 23,921 28 23,949 Underlying operating profit 873 6 879 Underlying finance income 20 20 Underlying finance costs 131 131 Underlying share of post-tax loss profit from joint ventures and associates 4 18 16 30 Underlying profit before tax 758 24 16 798 Profit on disposal of properties 51 1 52 Retail financing fair value movements 5 3 8 IAS 19 pension financing charge 23 23 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 7 7 Acquisition adjustments 18 18 One-off items 113 45 68 Profit before tax 887 3 14 898 Income tax expense 182 Profit for the financial year 716 Assets 12,023 4,113 16,136 Investment in joint ventures and associates note 14 3 401 404 Segment assets 12,026 4,113 401 16,540 Segment liabilities 6,907 3,628 10,535 Other segment items 2 Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations 994 131 1,125 Depreciation expense note 11 536 536 3 Amortisation expense note 12 14 1 15 Impairment note 11 92 92 Share-based payments 33 33 1 Represents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition.
2 R etail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 975 million and intangible asset additions of 19 million.
Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 18 million acquired as part of the Sainsburys Bank acquisition and intangible asset additions including goodwill of 113 million of which 88 million was acquired as part of the Sainsburys Bank acquisition, as detailed in note 12.
3 Amortisation expense within the financial services segment includes 1 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from acquisition fair value adjustments.
97 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Operating profit 2015 2014 m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: Employee costs note 7 2,445 2,435 Depreciation expense note 11 545 536 1 Amortisation expense note 12 34 15 Profit on disposal of properties note 3 5 51 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 516 485 other leases 72 59 sublease payments receivable 41 41 Foreign exchange gains losses 12 6 Impairment losses on loans and advances 21 2 Acquisition adjustments note 3 13 18 2,3 One-off items note 3 713 68 1 A mortisation expense includes 18 million 2014: 1 million amortisation on acquired intangibles resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments also included in acquisition adjustments in this note.
2 One-off items includes 17 million 2014: 7 million employee restructuring costs also included in employee costs in this note.
3 One-off it ems includes an impairment charge of 540 million 2014: 92 million recognised against property, plant and equipment and 8 million 2014: nil against intangible assets, as detailed in note 11 and 12.
2015 2014 Group m m 1 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.7 0.6 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Tax advisory, tax compliance, and other non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Total fees 1.2 1.2 1 In addit ion to the above, also included in administrative expenses is 0.3m 2014: nil payable to Lloyds Banking Group LBG in respect of a review by their auditors, PwC, of controls operated on Sainsburys Banks behalf by LBG under contractual arrangements.
6 Finance income and finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 19 20 Finance income 19 20 Borrowing costs: Secured borrowings 84 91 Unsecured borrowings 47 56 Obligations under finance leases 9 8 Provisions amortisation of discount note 22 3 2 143 157 Other finance costs: Interest capitalised qualifying assets note 11 17 26 1 Retail financing fair value movements 23 5 IAS 19 pension financing charge note 30 31 23 37 2 Finance costs 180 159 1 R etail financing fair value movements includes net fair value movements on derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedging relationship of 18 million 2014: 4 million and fair value movements on early repayment of bank loans carried at amortised cost of 5 million 2014: 1 million.
98 Financial Statements 7 Employee costs 2015 2014 m m Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to: Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 2,180 2,150 Social security costs 144 141 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 100 77 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 30 34 Share-based payments expense note 31 21 33 2,445 2,435 Number Number 000s 000s The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year was: Full-time 48.9 49.4 Part-time 112.2 111.1 161.1 160.5 Full-time equivalent 107.4 107.0 Details of key management compensation can be found in note 32 and within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73.
8 Income tax expense 2015 2014 m m Current tax expense: Current year UK tax 123 204 Current year overseas tax 1 2 Over under provision in prior years 26 8 98 214 Deferred tax credit: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25 31 Under over provision in prior years 20 12 Effect of change in tax rate 1 51 Total deferred tax credit note 21 4 32 Total income tax expense in income statement 94 182 The effective tax rate of 130.6 per cent 2014: 20.3 per cent is lower than 2014: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 m m Loss profit before tax 72 898 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 21.09% 2014: 23.04% 15 207 Effects of underlying items: Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 30 31 Over provision in prior years 5 7 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 1 31 Other 6 3 Effects of non-underlying items: Profit on disposal of properties 6 16 Investment property fair value movements 1 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 20 Over under provision in prior years 1 3 Impairments 84 21 Other one-off items 1 Other 3 Total income tax expense in income statement 94 182 On 20 March 2013, the Chancellor announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 20.0 per cent from 1 April 2015.
This was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and hence the effect of the change on the deferred tax balances was included in the 2014 figures above.
99 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Income tax expense continued Income tax credited or charged to equity and or other comprehensive income during the year is as follows: Retirement Share-based benefit Fair value payments obligations movements Total m m m m 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 6 6 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 1 9 8 Income tax credited 5 9 14 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 1 34 1 34 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 3 41 8 30 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 22 6 16 Income tax charged credited 2 53 3 48 The current and deferred tax in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes remeasurements and available-for-sale fair value movements have been charged or credited through other comprehensive income where appropriate.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts note 25, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the convertible bonds net of tax.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the number of shares that would be issued if all convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, retail financing fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, IAS 19 pension financing element, defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect the Groups underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
2015 2014 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,911.0 1,896.8 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 17.3 25.4 Weighted average number of dilutive convertible bonds 62.3 46.3 Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 1,990.6 1,968.5 m m Loss profit for the financial year 166 716 1 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 Diluted loss earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 166 727 m m Loss profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent 166 716 Less add net of tax : Profit on disposal of properties 17 53 Investment property fair value movements 7 Retail financing fair value movements 25 7 IAS 19 pension financing charge 24 18 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 5 5 Acquisition adjustments 9 17 One-off items 650 33 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 20 Underlying profit after tax 505 623 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 7 11 Diluted underlying profit after tax 512 634 pence pence per share per share Basic loss earnings 8.7 37.7 1 Diluted loss earnings 8.7 36.9 Underlying basic earnings 26.4 32.8 Underlying diluted earnings 25.7 32.2 1 Dil utive share options and convertible bonds have been excluded from the calculation as in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share, they are only included where the impact is dilutive.
100 Financial Statements 10 Dividend 2015 2014 pence pence 2015 2014 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend of prior financial year 12.3 11.9 234 225 Interim dividend of current financial year 5.0 5.0 96 95 17.3 16.9 330 320 After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share 2014: 12.3 pence per share was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 14March 2015, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of 157 million 2014: 234 million.
The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability at 14 March 2015.
11 Property, plant and equipment Group Group Company Land and Fixtures and Group Land and buildings equipment Total buildings m m m m Cost At 16 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 5 Additions 475 485 960 Disposals 110 608 718 Transfer to assets held for sale 90 4 94 17 At 14 March 2015 9,932 4,922 14,854 2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 16 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3 Depreciation expense for the year 158 387 545 Impairment 412 128 540 Disposals 86 604 690 Transfer to assets held for sale 9 1 10 2 At 14 March 2015 2,249 2,957 5,206 1 Net book value at 14 March 2015 7,683 1,965 9,648 1 Capital work-in-progress included above 322 90 412 Cost At 17 March 2013 9,422 5,551 14,973 19 Acquisition of subsidiaries 18 18 Additions 580 395 975 Disposals 341 915 1,256 Transfer to assets held for sale 9 9 At 15 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 17 March 2013 1,591 3,578 5,169 2 Depreciation expense for the year 168 368 536 Impairment 92 92 1 Disposals 75 899 974 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 2 At 15 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3 Net book value at 15 March 2014 7,878 2,002 9,880 16 Capital work-in-progress included above 388 77 465 101 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, property, plant and equipment is only tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, following a triggering event, each store is a cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the stores using the latest budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
Budget and forecast data reflect both past experience and future expectation of market conditions.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, sales growth rates and expected changes in operating margins.
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Board approved cash flow projections for five years are used and then extrapolated out assuming flat cashflows and discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent 2014: nine per cent over the earlier of a25-year period, being the estimated average remaining useful life of a freehold store, or lease length for leasehold stores.
The discount rate is based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
An increase in the discount rate of one per cent would result in an additional trading store impairment charge of around 50million.
Non-store assets, including depots, store pipeline development sites and IT assets, and the property, plant and equipment of Sainsburys Bank are reviewed separately for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
When an impairment review is required, the carrying value of the asset is compared with its value in use using a methodology consistent with that described above and with its fair value less costs to dispose to determine the recoverable amount.
The key assumptions in the fair value less costs to dispose include expected future rental yields, estimated costs to completion where applicable and consideration of alternative use values.
During the year, an impairment of 540 million 2014: 92 million was recognised, as detailed in note 3.
Interest capitalised Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to 17 million 2014: 26 million for the Group and nil 2014: nil for the Company.
Accumulated interest capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to 360 million 2014: 344 million for the Group and nil 2014:nil for the Company.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 4.3 per cent 2014: 5.3 per cent.
Security Property, plant and equipment of 125 2014: 125 supermarket properties, with a net book value of 2,102 million 2014: 2,133 million, has been pledged as security for the long-term financing note 20.
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of 65 million 2014: 66 million, has been pledged as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket properties sold in July 2000.
On 17 June 2010, property, plant and equipment comprising eight supermarket properties, with a net book value of 167 million, were transferred to the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the partnership.
On 25 March 2011 a further 13 properties with a net book value of 345 million were transferred tothe partnership see note 30.
Analysis of assets held under finance leases 2015 2015 2014 2014 Land and Fixtures and 2015 Land and Fixtures and 2014 buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total Group m m m m m m Cost 75 75 63 15 78 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 29 29 27 13 40 Net book value 46 46 36 2 38 102 Financial Statements 12 Intangible assets Computer Acquired Goodwill software intangibles Other Total Group m m m m m Cost At 16 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418 Additions 84 1 85 Disposals 2 73 75 At 14 March 2015 143 197 39 49 428 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 16 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132 Amortisation expense for the year 15 18 1 34 Impairment 3 4 1 8 Disposals 71 71 At 14 March 2015 4 44 19 36 103 Net book value at 14 March 2015 139 153 20 13 325 Cost At 17 March 2013 100 188 46 334 Acquisition of subsidiaries 45 4 39 88 Additions 42 2 44 Disposals 48 48 At 15 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 17 March 2013 131 32 163 Amortisation expense for the year 12 1 2 15 Impairment 1 1 Disposals 47 47 At 15 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132 Net book value at 15 March 2014 144 90 38 14 286 The goodwill balance above relates primarily to the Groups acquisitions of Sainsburys Bank plc 45 million, Bells Stores Ltd, Jacksons Stores Ltd 53 million, J.
B. Beaumont Limited, S. L. Shaw Limited, Culcheth Provision Stores Ltd, Town Centre Retail Bicester Ltd, SW Dewsbury Ltd, Anobii Ltd and Portfolio Investments Ltd and is allocated to the respective cash-generating units CGUs or group of CGUs within the retailing or financial services segment.
The CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated and the level at which it is monitored in the retailing segment are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of stores, whilst within financial services Sainsburys Bank is a separate CGU.
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU or group of CGUs with the carrying value of its goodwill.
The calculation of the retail CGUs value in use is detailed in note 11.
The Sainsburys Bank CGUs value in use is calculated using Board approved cash flows discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent over a five-year period with a terminal value.
Based on the operating performance of the CGUs, an impairment of retail goodwill of 3 million was identified in the current financial year 2014: 1 million.
The remaining valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in any impairment of goodwill.
Acquired intangibles relating to customer relationships, purchased credit card relationships and the value of core deposits were recognised as part of the fair value accounting on the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank.
Other intangibles primarily comprise pharmacy licences.
103 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Investments in subsidiaries 2015 2014 m m Shares in subsidiaries Company Beginning of year 7,562 7,316 Additions 530 381 Disposals 450 Provision for diminution in value of investment 23 135 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 11 End of year 7,630 7,562 The Companys principal operating subsidiaries, all of which are directly owned by the Company, are: Share of ordinary Country of allotted capital and registration or Principal activity voting rights incorporation JS Insurance Limited Insurance 100% Isle of Man JS Information Systems Limited IT services 100% England Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd Retailing 100% England Sainsburys Bank plc Financial services 100% England All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation.
Sainsburys Bank plc has been consolidated for the 12 months to 28 February 2015, the Banks nearest month-end to the Groups year-end.
Adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between this date and the Groups balance sheet date.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.
During the year, the Company subscribed for and subsequently disposed of 450 million preference shares in a Group subsidiary to facilitate the issue of 450million of unsecured convertible bonds.
A provision of 23 million 2014: 135 million was also made against investments in subsidiaries where the carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership and Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership are two partnerships the Group has an interest in, which are fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has therefore not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts.
Separate accounts for these partnerships are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
14 Investments in joint ventures and associates Group share of postGroup shares acquisition Company at cost reserves Group total shares at cost m m m m At 16 March 2014 318 86 404 6 Additions 12 12 12 Disposals 4 4 1 Dividends and distributions received 30 40 70 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 12 12 Investment property fair value movements 7 7 Retail financing fair value movements 7 7 Share of profit on disposal of properties 2 2 296 60 356 18 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 3 3 At 14 March 2015 296 63 359 18 At 17 March 2013 390 142 532 91 Additions 13 13 Disposals 85 92 177 85 Other adjustments 7 7 Dividends received 1 1 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 30 30 Retail financing fair value movements 3 3 Share of profit on disposal of properties 1 1 318 84 402 6 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 2 2 At 15 March 2014 318 86 404 6 1 The divid ends and distributions received include 30 million return of partner capital.
104 Financial Statements 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued The Groups principal joint ventures are: Statutory Share of ordinary Country of registration or Year-end allotted capital incorporation BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited property investment 31 March 50% England 1 Harvest property investment 31 March 50% England 1 Harvest includes The Harvest Limited Partnership, Harvest Development Management and Harvest Two Limited Partnership.
In the prior financial year, on 31 January 2014, the Group acquired an additional 50 per cent of the share capital of Sainsburys Bank plc, previously a joint venture, making the company a wholly-owned subsidiary which has been consolidated within the Group results from the date of acquisition onwards.
In the current year, joint ventures with a different year-end date to the Group that were previously reported to include the results up to the Groups year-end 2014: 15 March 2014, are now reported to include the results up to 28 February 2015, the nearest month-end to the Groups year-end.
BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited joint venture continues to be reported to the Groups year-end 14 March 2015.
Management accounts for the joint ventures are used where relevant and adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between 28 February and the Groups balance sheet date.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures are detailed below: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 558 666 Current assets 53 46 Current liabilities 45 48 Non-current liabilities 218 265 Net assets 348 399 Share of joint venture losses 6 Investments in joint ventures and associates 354 399 Income 73 213 Expenses 72 185 Investment property fair value movements 7 Share of joint venture profit after tax 8 28 Investments in joint ventures and associates at 14 March 2015 include 5 million of goodwill 2014: 5 million.
The total assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups principal joint ventures are detailed below: BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited Harvest 1 2 3 2 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current assets 1,038 1,208 63 115 Current assets 11 2 31 46 Current liabilities 21 43 15 30 Non-current liabilities 435 524 4 Joint venture net assets 593 643 79 127 Income 63 65 18 25 Expenses 41 38 5 17 Investment property fair value movements 14 6 5 Joint venture profit after tax 36 33 13 3 1 As at and for the 52 weeks ended 14 March 2015.
2 As at and for the 52 weeks ended 15 March 2014.
3 As at and for the 50 weeks ended 28 February 2015.
105 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Available-for-sale financial assets Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current Unlisted equity investments 2 2 Investment securities 32 Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 37 37 Other financial asset 145 184 184 255 37 37 The other financial asset represents the Groups beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool.
The fair value of the other financial asset is based on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of 0.8 per cent 2014: three per cent and a weighted average cost of capital of nine per cent 2014: nine per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year see note 29 for sensitivity analysis.
Investment securities of nil 2014: 32 million related to a Euro denominated floating rate note held by Sainsburys Bank.
The fair value movement on investment securities classified as available-for-sale is nil 2014: 1 million.
16 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Goods held for resale 994 1,001 Development properties 3 4 997 1,005 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 was 17,501 million 2014: 17,883 million.
17 Receivables a Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current Amounts owed by Group entities 1,363 1,229 Other receivables 73 26 73 26 1,363 1,229 Prepayments and accrued income 10 83 26 1,363 1,229 Current Trade receivables 101 125 Amounts owed by Group entities 1,395 1,422 Other receivables 271 247 372 372 1,395 1,422 Prepayments and accrued income 99 61 4 6 471 433 1,399 1,428 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms.
Current other receivables of 271 million 2014: 247 million, which include 121million 2014: 117 million of bank funds in the course of settlement, are generally non-interest bearing.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in sterling.
106 Financial Statements 17 Receivables continued Current amounts owed by Group entities to the Company include nil 2014: 60 million of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital, as detailed in note32.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means.
New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis.
b Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2015 2014 m m Non-current Loans and advances to customers 1,444 1,323 Impairment of loans and advances 32 31 1,412 1,292 Current Loans and advances to customers 1,654 1,335 Impairment of loans and advances 55 52 1,599 1,283 Loans and advances to customers accrue interest at commercial borrowing rates.
Sainsburys Bank has pledged the rights to 487 million in a pool of Bank issued loans and advances to customers for 240 million of Treasury Bills under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme.
These Treasury Bills can then be converted to cash as a source of future funding to the Bank.
As at 14 March 2015, there was nil 2014: nil borrowings drawn down.
Refer to note 28 for details on Sainsburys Bank credit risk.
c Provision for impairment of loans and advances 2015 2014 m m Opening provision 83 Acquisition of subsidiaries 83 Additional provisions 21 2 Utilisation of provision 16 2 Amortisation of discount 1 Closing provision 87 83 d Major counterparties Major counterparties are identified as follows: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Number of Balance Number of Balance counterparties m counterparties m Trade receivables 2 24 Other receivables 2 35 2 26 Related parties 1 13 1 28 In the prior year significant trade receivables identified above relate to amounts receivable from credit card companies and balances due from external suppliers.
At 14 March 2015, two significant other receivables were identified, being amounts due from CBRE of 11 million and an amount due from Lloyds Banking Group of 24 million 2014: 15 million due from the National Health Service and 11 million due from CBRE.
The related party receivable in 2015 and 2014 is from the Groups joint venture The Harvest Limited Partnership.
Loans are approved by the Investment Committee.
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale of 84 million 2014: 7 million for the Group and 15 million 2014: nil for the Company relate to properties held in the retailing segment.
Sale of these assets is expected to occur in the financial year beginning 15 March 2015.
Assets held for sale at 15 March 2014 were sold during the financial year ended 14 March 2015.
107 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Payables a Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Current Trade payables 2,089 1,846 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,403 4,427 Other payables 580 590 19 30 Accruals and deferred income 292 256 2,961 2,692 4,422 4,457 Non-current Amounts owed to Group entities 798 863 Other payables 9 10 Accruals and deferred income 256 194 265 204 798 863 The Groups policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Deferred income includes accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Foreign currency risk The Group has net euro denominated trade payables of 16 million 2014: 11 million and US dollar denominated trade payables of 46 million 2014: 35 million.
b Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 2015 2014 m m Current Customer accounts 3,305 3,245 Other deposits 20 Senior secured loan notes 70 3,395 3,245 Non-current Customer accounts 185 302 Other deposits 3 Senior secured loan notes 78 266 302 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers are generally repayable on demand and accrue interest at commercial deposit rates.
Sainsburys Bank, via its subsidiary undertakings, has entered a 400 million asset backed commercial paper securitisation of consumer loans of which 150million had been drawn prior to year end.
Interest on the notes is repayable at a floating rate linked to three-month LIBOR and their contractual repayment is determined by cash flows on the relevant personal loans included in the collateral pool.
Other deposits include 23 million 2014: nil of UK non-financial wholesale counterparties.
108 Financial Statements 20 Borrowings 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Group m m m m m m Secured loans: Loan due 2018 95 778 873 88 868 956 Loan due 2031 39 795 834 28 827 855 Unsecured loans: Bank overdrafts 9 9 13 13 Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 200 200 Bank loan due 2014 69 69 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 96 92 188 Bank loans due 2016 35 35 42 42 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 Bank loans due 2019 200 200 Convertible bond due 2014 189 189 Convertible bond due 2019 1 409 410 Other loans due 2015 24 24 Finance lease obligations 30 169 199 27 161 188 Total borrowings 260 2,506 2,766 534 2,250 2,784 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Company m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 7 7 Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 200 200 Bank loan due 2014 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 96 92 188 Bank loans due 2016 35 35 42 42 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 Bank loans due 2019 200 200 Convertible bond due 2014 189 189 Convertible bond due 2019 1 409 410 Other loans due 2015 24 24 Total borrowings 87 764 851 341 394 735 Secured loans Secured loans are secured on 125 2014: 125 supermarket properties note 11 and comprise loans from two finance companies, Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance plc: a fixed rate amortising loan from Eddystone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of 850 million 2014: 929 million at a weighted average rate of 5.43 per cent and carrying amount of 873 million 2014: 956 million with a final repayment date of April 2018: and an inflation linked amortising loan from Longstone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of 811 million 2014: 829 million at a fixed real rate of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 834 million 2014:855 million with a final repayment date of April 2031.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert 211 million 2014: 211 million of the 850 million 2014: 929 million loan due 2018 from fixed to floating rates of interest.
These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
In previous years, 572 million of fixed to floating rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges were fide-designated from their fair value hedging relationship.
The fair value adjustment of the debt previously hedged by these swaps will be amortised over the remaining life of the loans, resulting in an amortisation charge to the income statement in the current financial year of 1 million 2014: 1 million.
The Group has entered into inflation swaps to convert 400 million 2014: 400 million of the 811 million 2014: 829 million loan due 2031 from RPI linked interest to fixed rate interest for periods maturing April 2017 to April 2019.
These transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges note 29.
The principal activity of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance plc is the issuing of commercial mortgage backed securities and applying the proceeds towards the Secured loans due 2018 and 2031 with the Group as summarised above.
SFM Corporate Services Limited holds all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited and Longstone Finance Holdings Limited on trust for charitable purposes.
Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Longstone Finance plc.
As the Group has no interest, power or bears any risk over these entities they are not included in the Group consolidation.
Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above bank base rate.
Revolving credit facility The Group maintains a syndicated committed revolving credit facility for 1,150 million.
The 1,150 million facility is split into two tranches, a 500 million Facility A maturing in March 2017 and a 650 million Facility B maturing in March 2019.
At 14 March 2015, 120 million had been drawn under Facility A 2014: 200 million.
The revolving credit facility incurs commitment fees at market rates and drawdowns bear interest at a spread above LIBOR.
109 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings continued Bank loans due 2014 In April 2014, the Group prepaid a 25 million loan due July 2014 without penalty and also prepaid a 40 million loan due May 2015 at fair value.
Bank loans due 2015 Bank loans due 2015 comprise a 50 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 45 million floating rate loan: and a 50 million loan due June 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a fixed rate loan.
The 50 million loan and associated interest rate swap have been designated as a cash flow hedge.
During March 2015, the Group repaid upon maturity a 20 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest, a US$69 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan and a 40 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 34million floating rate loan.
Bank loans due 2016 Bank loans due 2016 comprise a 50 million loan due September 2016 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan.
Bank loans due 2017 During March 2015, the Group prepaid at fair value a US$100 million loan due March 2017 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 63 million fixed rate loan.
The US$100 million loan and associated cross currency swap had been designated as a cash flow hedge.
Bank loans due 2019 Bank loans due 2019 comprise a new 200 million five-year bilateral loan due August 2019 at floating rates of interest, 100 million of which was swapped into fixed rate liabilities.
The 100 million portion of the loan and associated interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
Convertible bond due 2014 In July 2014, the 190 million convertible bond matured and was repaid.
2015 2014 m m Liability component as at the beginning of the year 189 184 Repaid during the financial year 190 Interest expense 5 14 Interest paid 4 8 Other 1 Liability component as at the end of the year 189 Convertible bond due 2019 In November 2014, the Group issued 450 million of unsecured convertible bonds due November 2019.
The bonds pay a coupon of 1.25 per cent payable semi-annually.
Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 21 November 2019 at a conversion price of 353 pence.
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split into a liability component of 411 million and an equity component of 39 million.
The equity component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
2015 2014 m m Face value of the convertible bond issued in November 2014 450 Equity component 39 Liability component on initial recognition in November 2014 411 Interest expense 5 1 Other 6 Liability component as at the end of the financial year 410 1 Other r elates to fees.
Other loans due 2015 The three non-bank fixed rate loans due March 2015 totalling 28 million swapped into a 23 million floating rate loan were repaid upon maturity in March 2015.
These transactions had been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
Finance lease obligations Present value of Present value of Minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 38 35 30 27 In the second to fifth years inclusive 124 122 100 101 After five years 207 195 69 60 369 352 199 188 Less: future finance charges 170 164 Present value of lease obligations 199 188 Disclosed as: Current 30 27 Non-current 169 161 199 188 110 Financial Statements 20 Borrowings continued Finance leases have effective interest rates ranging from 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent 2014: 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent.
The average remaining lease term is 67years 2014: 68 years.
In May 2014, the Group entered into a 30 million five-year hire purchase facility with respect to moveable in-store assets due 2019.
21 Deferred taxation The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, are shown below.
Accelerated Retirement capital Fair value Rolled over benefit Share-based allowances Capital losses movements capital gains obligations payment Other Total Group m m m m m m m m At 16 March 2014 176 48 34 96 58 12 39 227 Credit charge to income statement 16 4 4 1 6 4 5 Credit charge to equity or other comprehensive 9 1 8 income Rate change adjustment to income statement 2 1 1 At 14 March 2015 162 52 29 97 57 6 42 215 At 17 March 2013 214 49 36 100 48 19 43 277 Acquisition of subsidiary 4 4 Credit charge to income statement 12 6 11 22 2 2 19 Charge credit to equity or other comprehensive 8 41 3 30 income Rate change adjustment to income statement 26 7 15 13 2 6 51 Rate change adjustment to equity 6 22 16 At 15 March 2014 176 48 34 96 58 12 39 227 2015 2014 Group m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 330 345 Total deferred income tax assets 115 118 Net deferred income tax liability recognised in non-current liabilities 215 227 Capital Fair value Rolled over losses movements capital gains Total Company m m m m At 16 March 2014 25 25 Charge to income statement Rate change adjustment to income statement At 14 March 2015 25 25 At 17 March 2013 29 1 29 1 Charge to income statement 1 1 Rate change adjustment to income statement 4 4 At 15 March 2014 25 25 2015 2014 Company m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 25 25 Total deferred income tax assets 25 25 Net deferred income tax asset Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred income tax assets and the deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
111 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Provisions Group onerous Group long Company Company leases and service Other Group onerous disposal Company 1 onerous contracts awards provisions total leases provision total m m m m m m m At 16 March 2014 29 7 33 69 3 1 4 Additional provisions 88 1 21 110 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 5 Utilisation of provision 29 1 26 56 1 1 Amortisation of discount 3 3 1 1 At 14 March 2015 88 7 26 121 3 1 4 At 17 March 2013 38 7 5 50 2 1 3 Acquired through business combinations 14 14 Additional provisions 1 16 17 1 1 Unused amounts reversed 1 1 Utilisation of provision 10 1 2 13 Amortisation of discount 1 1 2 At 15 March 2014 29 7 33 69 3 1 4 1 Gr oup disposal provisions of 1 million 2014: 1 million have been included in other provisions in the current and prior year.
Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Disclosed as: Current 44 40 2 2 Non-current 77 29 2 2 121 69 4 4 The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 23 years 2014: 29 years, after allowance for existing or anticipated sublet rental income.
The additional provisions of 88 million includes 50 million onerous lease charge and 30 million onerous contract charge, recognised as part of the impairment review discussed in note 3.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the onerous lease charge recognised as part of the impairment review are consistent with those discussed in note 11.
The onerous contract provision is expected to be utilised within the next financial year and hence is classified as current.
Long service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
Additional provisions of 21 million within other provisions include a 14 million provision for restructuring costs.
The prior year additional provisions of 16million included within other provisions mainly included a commercial item for which we continue to defend our position.
The prior year 14 million acquired through business combinations related to Sainsburys Bank provisions.
23 Called up share capital and share premium account 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group and Company million million m m Called up share capital 4 Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 28 1,919 1,907 548 545 7 Share premium account Share premium 1,108 1,091 The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below: Share Ordinary Ordinary premium shares shares account million m m At 16 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 3 17 At 14 March 2015 1,919 548 1,108 At 17 March 2013 1,893 541 1,075 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 14 4 16 At 15 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091 112 Financial Statements 24 Capital redemption and other reserves Currency AvailableCash flow Convertible Total Capital translation for-sale hedge bond other redemption reserve assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Group m m m m m m At 16 March 2014 2 153 26 2 127 680 Currency translation differences 3 3 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 30 30 Items reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets reserve 1 1 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Group 13 13 Joint ventures note 14 3 3 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 21 21 Convertible bond equity component 39 39 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 14 March 2015 1 124 15 36 146 680 At 17 March 2013 122 11 7 140 680 Currency translation differences 2 2 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 31 31 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Group 43 43 Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 4 4 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 15 March 2014 2 153 26 2 127 680 AvailableConvertible Cash flow Total Capital for-sale bond hedge other redemption assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Company m m m m m At 16 March 2014 6 2 1 7 680 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax 5 5 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 2 2 Convertible bond equity component 39 39 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 14 March 2015 8 36 4 40 680 At 17 March 2013 6 7 2 11 680 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 1 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 15 March 2014 6 2 1 7 680 The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
The available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the 190 million convertible bond issued in July 2009, which matured and was repaid in July 2014, and the 450 million convertible bond issued in November 2014.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares.
Shareholders approved a 680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, atthe Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004.
The final redemption date for B Shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the Bshares have now been completed.
113 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Retained earnings Group Group Company Group Profit and Total retained Retained Own shares loss account earnings earnings m m m m At 16 March 2014 9 3,569 3,560 2,046 Loss profit for the year 166 166 344 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 14 14 Dividends paid 330 330 330 Share-based payment net of tax 21 21 Shares vested 9 9 Purchase of own shares 18 18 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 12 21 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 5 Purchase of non-controlling interest 2 2 At 14 March 2015 18 3,075 3,057 2,085 At 17 March 2013 21 3,422 3,401 1,952 Profit for the year 716 716 378 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 273 273 Dividends paid 320 320 320 Share-based payment net of tax 31 31 Shares vested 12 12 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 12 33 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 5 At 15 March 2014 9 3,569 3,560 2,046 Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts 4 The Group owns 5,960,476 2014: 2,061,793 of its ordinary shares of 28 pence nominal value each.
At 14 March 2015, the total nominal value of the own 7 shares was 2 million 2014: 1 million.
All shares 2014: all shares are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans.
The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the shareholder under the above schemes.
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements.
The market value of the own shares at 14 March 2015 was 15 million 2014: 6 million.
114 Financial Statements 26 Notes to the cash flow statements a Reconciliation of operating loss profit to cash generated from operations Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Loss profit before tax 72 898 373 375 Net finance costs 161 139 123 23 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures note 14 8 28 Dividend income from subsidiaries 252 250 Operating profit loss 81 1,009 2 102 Adjustments for: Depreciation expense 545 536 Amortisation expense 34 15 1 Non-cash acquisition adjustments 31 19 Sainsburys Bank impairment losses on loans and advances 21 2 Profit on disposal of properties 5 51 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 540 92 1 Impairment of intangible assets 8 1 Nectar VAT recovery 14 Foreign exchange differences 12 6 Share-based payments expense 21 33 2 Retirement benefit obligations 79 244 Provision for diminution in value of investment 23 135 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 11 Write down of advances to Group companies 28 237 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,123 1,366 18 1 Changes in working capital: Decrease increase in inventories 6 19 Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets 32 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 57 13 45 13 Increase in amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 426 23 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 294 118 519 22 Increase in amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 114 6 Increase in provisions 50 2 2 Cash generated from used in operations 1,136 1,227 492 38 1 R efer to note 3 for details of acquisition adjustments.
This excludes 18 million 2014: 1 million amortisation on acquired intangibles included within amortisation in this note.
2 The adjus tment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the service charge of nil 2014: 34 million for the defined benefit scheme, defined benefit pension scheme expenses of 6 million 2014: 7 million, one-off past service credit of nil 2014: 158 million and the cash contributions of 85 million made by the Group to the defined benefit scheme 2014:127 million.
b Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Cash in hand and bank balances 970 409 1 1 Money market funds and deposits 262 656 91 135 Treasury bills 53 527 Cash and bank balances 1,285 1,592 92 136 Bank overdrafts note 20 9 13 7 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,276 1,579 92 129 115 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Analysis of net debt Adjusted Adjusted Group Sainsburys Group Group Sainsburys Group 1 1 2015 Bank 2015 2014 Bank 2014 m m m m m m Non-current assets Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 37 37 Derivative financial instruments 21 1 20 28 1 27 58 1 57 65 1 64 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 882 403 1,592 1,225 367 Derivative financial instruments 69 69 49 49 1,354 882 472 1,641 1,225 416 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 9 9 13 13 Borrowings 221 221 494 494 Finance leases 30 30 27 27 Derivative financial instruments 75 1 74 65 65 335 1 334 599 599 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,337 2,337 2,089 2,089 Finance leases 169 169 161 161 Derivative financial instruments 38 6 32 21 6 15 2,544 6 2,538 2,271 6 2,265 Total net debt 1,467 876 2,343 1,164 1,220 2,384 1 The Groups definition of net debt excludes Sainsburys Banks own net debt balances 2014: The Groups definition of net debt includes the cost of acquiring Sainsburys Bank, but excludes Sainsburys Banks own net debt balances.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2015 2014 m m Net debt as at the beginning of the year 2,384 2,162 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 303 1,075 Elimination of net decrease increase in Sainsburys Bank cash and cash equivalents 343 1,225 1 Net increase decrease in borrowings 20 1 Net increase of obligations under finance leases 11 28 Fair value movements 7 45 Equity component of convertible bond 39 Net debt as at the end of the year 2,343 2,384 1 Excluding fair value and Sainsburys Bank derivative movements.
116 Financial Statements 28 Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and capital risk.
Financial risk management is managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
Therisk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by identifying financial exposures andsetting appropriate risk limits and controls.
Financial risk management with respect to Sainsburys Bank is separately managed by the Banks Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO reporting to the Sainsburys Bank Board Risk Committee.
The risks are more fully described in the Sainsburys Bank section below.
The Group uses forward contracts and options to hedge foreign exchange and commodity exposures and interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups treasury policy which prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due at a reasonable price.
The operational cash flow of the Group is largely stable and predictable reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector.
Cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements.
The Groups liquidity policy sets a minimum funding headroom of 300million in excess of forecast net debt over a rolling 12 month time horizon.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining core long-dated borrowings, pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding adequate contingent liquidity in the form of committed standby credit facilities.
Short-term and seasonal funding is sourced from the Groups revolving credit facility and the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at various spreads above LIBOR.
The Group maintains a syndicated committed revolving credit facility for 1,150 million.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
Theamounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate of cash flows in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 14 March 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans: Loan due 2018 130 134 712 1 Loan due 2031 64 65 204 863 Unsecured loans: Bank overdraft 9 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 1 1 120 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 86 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 36 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 211 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 467 2 Finance lease obligations 39 46 88 207 Trade and other payables 2,926 9 5 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,763 171 101 Derivative contracts net settled Commodity contracts 8 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 4 3 1 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 367 21 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 382 21 Commodity contracts outflow 15 15 46 61 Commodity contracts inflow 12 13 38 60 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 47 45 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 37 36 117 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 15 March 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans: Loan due 2018 127 130 846 1 Loan due 2031 63 65 202 1,004 Unsecured loans: Bank overdraft 13 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 2 2 203 2 Bank loans due 2014 70 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 99 93 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 2 2 62 Convertible bond due 2014 194 3 Other loans due 2015 25 2 Finance lease obligations 36 33 91 195 Trade and other payables 2,665 10 5 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,543 231 75 Derivative contracts net settled Commodity contracts 1 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 3 6 10 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 405 40 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 389 40 Commodity contracts outflow 13 13 39 74 Commodity contracts inflow 12 13 40 80 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 110 50 145 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 105 46 133 Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Company m m m m At 14 March 2015 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 1 1 120 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 86 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 36 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 211 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 467 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,438 131 724 Other payables 19 At 15 March 2014 Bank overdraft 7 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 2 2 203 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 99 93 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 2 2 62 Convertible bond due 2014 194 3 Other loans due 2015 25 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,607 51 806 Other payables 30 Assumptions: 1 Ca sh flows relating to debt and swaps linked to inflation rates have been calculated using a RPI of 1.1 per cent for the year ended 14 March 2015, 1.8 per cent for the year ended 13 March 2016 and 2.6 per cent for future years 2014: RPI of 2.8 per cent for the year ended 15 March 2014 and 3.1 per cent for future years.
2 Cash flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
3 Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated using spot rates at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
4 The sw ap rate which matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap at 14 March 2015 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 2014: 15 March 2014.
5 Ca sh flows relating to amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks are calculated using contractual terms and interest rates for fixed rate instruments.
Where balances are contractually repayable on demand, behavioural assumptions are applied to estimate the interest payable on those balances.
These are shown as due within one year.
118 Financial Statements 28 Financial risk management continued Further information relating to liquidity risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the separate section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from counterparty default or non-performance in respect of Group holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to customers.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 5,124 million 2014: 4,897 million, equivalent to the Groups total financial assets, and of this amount 4,074 million relates to Sainsburys Bank 2014: 3,965 million.
The Group sets counterparty limits for each of its banking and investment counterparties based on their credit ratings but with minimum senior unsecured long-term credit ratings of BBB from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Baa1 from Moodys or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAAm from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Aaa MR1 from Moodys.
The table below analyses the Groups cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash, cash in transit and cash at ATMs: Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Financial institutions Money market funds AAAm Aaa 114 367 65 60 Financial institutions Money market deposits AA Aa1 to A A2 148 289 25 75 UK Government Treasury Bills AA Aa1 to A A2 53 527 Deposits of central banks AA Aa1 485 5 Management does not expect any losses arising from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange options, forward contracts and commodity contracts for difference are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, foreign currency and fuel exposures.
The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets by credit exposure, excluding any collateral held.
Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Interest rate swaps AA Aa1 to A A2 43 49 43 47 Interest rate swaps A A3- to BBB Baa1 21 24 21 24 FX forward contracts AA Aa1 to A A2 24 1 FX forward contracts A A3- to BBB Baa1 2 Further information relating to counterparty credit risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or a master netting agreement.
Themaster netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations.
Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts Balances subject to a recognised financial Amounts offset in recognised in the contractual right of Cash collateral assets and liabilities the balance sheet balance sheet offset pledged Net amounts Group m m m m m m At 14 March 2015 Derivative financial assets 90 90 16 10 64 Derivative financial liabilities 113 113 16 5 92 Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 1,285 8 1,277 Bank overdrafts 9 9 8 1 Trade and other payables 1,939 247 1,692 1,692 686 247 439 5 444 At 15 March 2014 Derivative financial assets 77 77 1 17 59 Derivative financial liabilities 86 86 1 85 Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 1,592 7 45 1,540 Bank overdrafts 13 13 7 6 Trade and other payables 1,005 144 861 861 565 144 709 62 647 119 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts Balances subject to a recognised financial Amounts offset in recognised in the contractual right of Cash collateral assets and liabilities the balance sheet balance sheet offset pledged Net amounts Company m m m m m m At 14 March 2015 Derivative financial assets 77 77 10 67 Derivative financial liabilities 75 75 75 Cash and cash equivalents 92 92 92 94 94 10 84 At 15 March 2014 Derivative financial assets 71 71 16 55 Derivative financial liabilities 57 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 136 136 136 Bank overdrafts 7 7 7 143 143 16 127 The Group holds certain financial derivatives which are subject to credit support agreements.
Under these agreements cash collateral is posted by one party to the other party should the fair value of the financial derivative exceed a pre-agreed level.
At 14 March 2015, the Group held 10 million of collateral against financial derivatives 2014: 17 million.
At 14 March 2015, Sainsburys Bank had no collaterised reverse repo transactions, 2014: 45 million fully collaterised by UK Gilts.
The Group operates a cash pooling arrangement and collective net overdraft facility with its main clearing bank.
At 14 March 2015, the Group had a 8 million overdraft 2014: 7 million under this facility.
Market risk a Currency risk Currency risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in exchange rates impacting the Groups foreign currency denominated supply contracts.
The Groups currency risk policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on the Groups income statement by requiring anticipated foreign currency cash flows to be hedged.
The future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis from 20 per cent to 80 per cent using forward contracts and options.
The Group has exposure to currency risk on balances held on foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments.
The Group considers that a ten per cent movement in exchange rates against sterling is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The impact of a ten per cent movement in the exchange rate of US dollar and euro versus sterling at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, is summarised in the table below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Change in Change in Change in exchange Change in exchange exchange rate rate impact exchange rate impact impact on on cash flow rate impact on cash flow post-tax hedge reserve on post-tax hedge reserve loss -10% -10% profit -10% -10% m m m m USD GBP 3 4 25 31 2 2 29 36 EUR GBP 1 1 10 12 10 12 b Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of increased costs or lower income arising from unexpected movements in interest rates and inflation rates impacting on the Groups borrowing and investment portfolios.
The Groups interest rate policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating interest and inflation rates by maintaining a diversified mix of fixed rate, floating rate and variable capped rate liabilities.
Interest on financial instruments is classified as fixed rate if interest re-set on the borrowings is greater than 12 months, floating rate where interest is re-set at intervals of one year or less and variable capped rate if interest is re-set at intervals of one year or less and the nominal interest rate is subject to a cap.
120 Financial Statements 28 Financial risk management continued The mix of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date were as follows: Variable Fixed Floating capped Total m m m m At 14 March 2015 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Amounts due from Sainsbury's Bank customers 2,163 848 3,011 Cash and cash equivalents 656 629 1,285 Borrowings 1,291 442 834 2,567 Finance lease obligations 133 66 199 Amounts due to Sainsbury's Bank customers and banks 509 3,152 3,661 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 1,602 1,602 Inflation linked swaps 350 350 Total 1,066 544 484 2,094 At 15 March 2014 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 69 69 Amounts due from Sainsbury's Bank customers 1,948 627 2,575 Cash and cash equivalents 396 1,196 1,592 Borrowings 1,182 515 899 2,596 Finance lease obligations 123 65 188 Amounts due to Sainsbury's Bank customers 619 2,928 3,547 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 943 943 Cross currency swaps 39 39 Inflation linked swaps 300 300 Total 862 634 599 2,095 Further information relating to interest rate risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
i Cash flow sensitivity for floating rate instruments The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in interest rates is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of floating rate balances to a change of 100 basis points in the interest rate or such lesser amount as would result in a zero rate of interest at the balance sheet date is shown below.
2015 2015 2014 2014 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on cash post-tax cash flow post-tax flow hedge loss hedge reserve profit reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 10 11 5 4 3 2 2 ii Cash flow sensitivity for variable capped rate liabilities The Group holds nil capped floating rate borrowings 2014: 44 million and 834 million of capped inflation-linked borrowings 2014: 855 million of which 350 million 2014: 300 million have been swapped into fixed rate borrowings using inflation rate swaps maturing April 2017 to April 2018.
The Group has also entered into 50 million 2014: 100 million of forward starting inflation rate swaps maturing April 2019.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in the RPI rate is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of variable capped balances to a change of 100 basis points in the RPI rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on cash post-tax cash flow post-tax flow hedge loss hedge reserve profit reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 4 4 10 10 4 4 13 13 121 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Commodity risk Commodity risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in commodity prices impacting the Groups own use consumption of electricity, gas and fuel.
The Groups Energy Price Risk Committee seeks to limit the impact by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel to be hedged.
The Group hedges own use consumption of electricity and gas with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with its suppliers.
The Group uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference.
The Group considers a ten per cent movement in commodity prices a reasonable measure of volatility.
2015 2014 Impact on Impact on cash flow cash flow hedge reserve hedge reserve m m Change in the fair value of the power, diesel and gasoil price -10% 2 2 3 3 Capital risk management The Group defines capital as total equity plus net debt.
The Boards capital objective is to maintain a strong and efficient capital base to support the Groups strategic objectives, provide optimal returns for shareholders and safeguard the Groups status as a going concern.
There has been no change to capital risk management policies during the year.
The Board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover.
The Board can manage the Groups capital structure by diversifying the debt portfolio, adjusting the size and timing of dividends paid to shareholders, recyclingcapital through sale and leaseback transactions, issuing new shares or repurchasing shares in the open market and flexing capital expenditure.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Groups share option programmes: howeverthe Group does not operate a defined share buy-back plan.
In November 2014, the Board announced a new affordable dividend policy under which dividend cover is fixed at two times underlying earnings for 2014 15 and the next three years.
Part of the Groups capital risk management is to ensure compliance with the general covenants and financial covenants included in the Groups various borrowing facilities.
There have been no breaches of covenant in the financial year ended 14 March 2015.
Information relating to Sainsburys Bank capital risk management is detailed in note 37.
Sainsburys Bank The principal financial risks faced by Sainsburys Bank relate to liquidity and funding risk, counterparty credit risk retail and wholesale and market risk, including interest rate risk.
Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that the Bank is unable to meet its financial commitments as they are expected to fall due without an adverse impact on funding costs or profitability.
The Banks liquidity risk management framework complies with the standards set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The Bank has completed an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA that allows the Bank to demonstrate that it understands the liquidity risks it is running and has appropriate controls in place to mitigate them, including establishment of minimum levels of liquidity to be held.
Limits are informed by a number of stress scenarios that assess the survival period of the Bank.
In meeting internal limits as well as PRA requirements, the Bank maintains a portfolio of highly liquid assets that can be readily sold to meet the Banks obligations to depositors and other creditors.
The portfolio is managed on a daily basis and within the framework as outlined in the ILAA and by the PRA.
In addition, the Bank prepares both long-term and short-term forecasts to assess liquidity requirements.
Short-term forecasting covers a rolling 12 month period and takes into account factors such as ATM cash management, investment maturities and customer deposit patterns and balances.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from a retail customer or wholesale counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the Banks holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to customers.
Credit risk in respect of retail lending customers is managed through automated credit decision techniques using both scorecards and policy rules for new applications.
In addition, behavioural scoring is used to assess the conduct of customers accounts on an ongoing basis.
Underwriting is undertaken by specialist teams in operational areas to complement these processes.
The Retail Credit Risk Committee ensures that appropriate policies are established and adhered to and this is subject to further oversight from the Board Risk Committee.
Internal Audit teams carry out regular reviews of credit risk processes and policies are reviewed and re-approved on an annual basis.
The credit exposure relating to off balance sheet items was 319 million 2014: 58 million, being 79 million 2014: 58 million of undrawn loan commitments and 240million 2014: nil of Treasury Bills obtained under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme FLS.
Sainsburys Bank had pledged the rights to a pool of Bank issued loans and advances to customers in exchange for FLS Treasury Bills which are accounted for off balance sheet butare available as a source of liquidity to the Bank.
122 Financial Statements 28 Financial risk management continued Credit quality per class of financial asset Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are summarised as follows: 2015 2014 m m Impaired 107 103 Past due but not impaired 16 16 Neither past due nor impaired 2,970 2,540 Gross 3,093 2,659 Less: allowance for impairment 87 83 Less: hedging fair value adjustment 5 1 Net book value 3,011 2,575 Unsecured Secured lending lending Total m m m At 14 March 2015 Past due and impaired Less than three months, but impaired 2 2 Past due three to six months 6 6 Past due six to 12 months Past due over 12 months 1 1 Recoveries 98 98 Possession Total gross impaired loans 106 1 107 Past due but not impaired Past due less than three months but not impaired 14 2 16 Total gross past due but not impaired 14 2 16 Neither past due nor impaired Not impaired 2,923 47 2,970 Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,923 47 2,970 Total gross amount due 3,043 50 3,093 At 15 March 2014 Past due and impaired Less than three months, but impaired 2 2 Past due three to six months 7 1 8 Past due six to 12 months Past due over 12 months 1 1 Recoveries 92 92 Possession Total gross impaired loans 101 2 103 Past due but not impaired Past due less than three months but not impaired 13 3 16 Total gross past due but not impaired 13 3 16 Neither past due nor impaired Not impaired 2,486 54 2,540 Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,486 54 2,540 Total gross amount due 2,600 59 2,659 Mortgages held over residential properties represent the only collateral held by the Bank for retail lending exposures.
The fair value of collateral held for impaired secured loans and secured loans past due but not impaired was 8 million 2014: 10 million.
The fair value of collateral held against possession cases was nil 2014: nil.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market factors such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
The Bank hedges all such risks within limits set by the Board Risk Committee.
Exposures are managed and monitored using a variety of sensitivity measures to minimise volatility of earnings and economic value, taking into account expected future business flows.
Interest rate risk The Bank offers lending and saving products with varying interest rate features and maturities which create potential interest rate risk exposures.
Short-term exposures under 12 months are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity to a variety of movements in interest rates.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are controlled through position and sensitivity limits, predominantly using Economic Value Equity EVE measures for risk management purposes.
Where residual balance sheet exposures exist, interest rate swaps are the primary hedging instrument used to mitigate that risk.
The Bank does not operate a trading book.
123 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been disclosed in the balance sheet as follows: Group Company 2015 2015 2014 2014 2015 2015 2014 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m m m m m Non-current 21 38 28 21 33 18 23 10 Current 69 75 49 65 44 57 48 47 Total 90 113 77 86 77 75 71 57 The fair value and notional amount of financial derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Group m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 21 733 6 1,435 26 548 895 Cross currency swaps 23 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 4 150 50 Cross currency swaps 10 90 Inflation rate swaps 14 400 5 400 Foreign exchange forward contracts 26 268 10 118 1 126 17 323 Commodity contracts 8 24 1 28 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 41 391 38 331 47 397 44 393 Cross currency swaps 2 17 19 89 9 167 Commodity contracts 14 15 3 13 Total 90 1,409 113 2,562 77 1,084 86 2,369 2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Company m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 20 211 24 211 Cross currency swaps 23 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 4 150 50 Cross currency swaps 4 63 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 55 791 52 731 47 391 44 331 Cross currency swaps 2 17 19 89 9 167 Total 77 1,019 75 970 71 602 57 634 Fair value hedges Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 211 million portfolio of interest rate and cross currency swaps 2014: 234 million to hedge a portion of fixed rate borrowings.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The notional principal amount of one of the interest rate swaps amortises from 211 million to 111 million from April 2016 to April 2018.
Sainsburys Bank and its subsidiaries hold a 1,957 million portfolio of interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges.
Interest rate swaps are transacted to hedge the Banks customer assets and non-interest bearing items including reserves through a combination of pay and receive fixed swaps 1,719million and 238million respectively.
All derivatives are designated into effective fair value hedge accounting relationships.
For the year to 14 March 2015, the fair value movement in the Groups interest rate swaps resulted in a charge to the income statement of 4 million 2014:13million charge.
The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate borrowings and Sainsburys Bank loans and advances to customers resulted ina credit to the income statement of 4 million 2014: 13 million credit.
124 Financial Statements 29 Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 400 million 2014: 400 million portfolio of inflation rate swaps to hedge a portion of the inflation linked secured loan due 2031.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives annual RPI inflation subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent and pays fixed rate interest.
The Group holds a 150 million portfolio of interest rate swaps 2014: 113 million portfolio of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to hedge a 50million fixed rate bank loan due 2015 and 100 million of a 200 million floating rate bank loan due 2019.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised loss of 18 million 2014: 12 million loss is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the swaps in cash flow hedges.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next four years.
Foreign exchange forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its future foreign currency trading liabilities.
At 14 March 2015 the Group had forward purchased 153 million 2014: 129 million and sold sterling at exchange rates ranging from 1.20 to 1.41 2014: 1.14 to 1.23 with maturities from March 2015 to January 2017 2014: March 2014 to December 2015 and forward purchased US$407 million 2014: US$533 million and sold sterling at exchange rates ranging from 1.50 to 1.70 2014: 1.48 to 1.67 with maturities from March 2015 to June 2016 2014: March 2014 to June 2015.
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised profit of 12 million 2014: loss of 13 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the forward contracts.
This profit will be transferred to the income statement over the next 21 months.
During the year a charge to the income statement of 13 million was transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales 2014: 3 million charge.
Commodity forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of commodity forward contracts to hedge its own use fuel consumption over the next 24 months.
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised loss of 7 million 2014: loss of 1 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the commodity contracts.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next 24 months.
Derivatives not in a hedge relationship Some of the Groups derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or, where the gains or losses on the derivative contract economically offset the underling hedged item, are not designated in a hedging relationship.
Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 331 million 2014: 331 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at FVTPL to convert floating rate obligations into fixed rates.
Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
Offsetting these swaps the Group holds a 391 million 2014: 391 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at FVTPL, to convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate interest.
Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The Group holds an 89 million 2014: 167 million portfolio of cross currency swaps at FVTPL to convert floating rate borrowings denominated in Euro and USdollars into floating rate sterling borrowings.
The Group holds a 17 million 2014: nil cross currency swap to hedge a Hong Kong dollar intercompany loandue September 2015.
Commodity forward contracts Commodity forward contracts at FVTPL relates to the Groups long-term fixed price power purchase agreements with independentproducers.
Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the carrying amount and the fair value of financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements at a value other than fair value.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices available from the market on which the instruments are traded.
Where market values are not available, the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, overdrafts and payables are assumed to approximate to their book values.
125 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Group Company Carrying Group Carrying Company amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m At 14 March 2015 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 2,758 2,950 Other receivables 344 344 1 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,011 3,024 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 5,201 5,278 2 Loans due 2018 873 950 Loans due 2031 834 1,012 Bank overdrafts 9 9 Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 120 120 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 86 86 Bank loans due 2016 35 35 35 35 Bank loans due 2017 Bank loans due 2019 200 200 200 200 Convertible bond due 2019 410 475 410 475 Finance lease obligations 199 199 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,661 3,661 At 15 March 2014 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 2,651 3,233 Other receivables 273 273 1 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,575 2,582 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 5,290 5,385 2 Loans due 2018 956 1,053 Loans due 2031 855 1,013 Bank overdrafts 13 13 7 7 Revolving credit facility due 2017 200 200 200 200 Bank loans due 2014 69 75 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 188 188 188 188 Bank loans due 2016 42 42 42 42 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 60 60 Convertible bond due 2014 189 193 189 193 3 Other loans due 2015 24 24 24 24 Finance lease obligations 188 188 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,547 3,543 1 Includes 1,957 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2014: 1,232 million.
2 Includes 211 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2014: 211 million.
3 Includes nil accounted for as a fair value hedge 2014: 23 million.
The fair value of financial assets as disclosed in the table above at 14 March 2015 was 3,368 million 2014: 2,855 million.
The fair value of the financial assets has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial liabilities was 6,747 million 2014: 6,592 million.
475 million 2014: 193 million has been determined using market values and is within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
6,272 million 2014: 6,399 million has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and is within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
126 Financial Statements 29 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted market prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date.
This level includes listed equity securities and debt instrument on public exchanges: Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates: and Level 3 fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m At 14 March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Other financial assets 145 145 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial assets 90 90 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial liabilities 99 14 113 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m At 15 March 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Investment securities 32 32 Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Other financial assets 184 184 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial assets 74 3 77 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial liabilities 86 86 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m At 14 March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial assets 77 77 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial liabilities 75 75 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m At 15 March 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial assets 71 71 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial liabilities 57 57 127 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities: Available-for-sale Commodity financial assets derivatives Total 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 m m m At 16 March 2014 184 3 187 In finance cost in the Group income statement 17 17 In other comprehensive income 39 39 At 14 March 2015 145 14 131 Available-for-sale Commodity financial assets derivatives Total 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 m m m At 17 March 2013 154 4 158 In finance cost in the Group income statement 1 1 In other comprehensive income 30 30 At 15 March 2014 184 3 187 The available-for-sale financial assets relate to the Groups beneficial interest in a property investment pool.
The net present value of the Groups interest in thevarious freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of 0.8 per cent per annum 2014:three per cent and a discount rate of nine per cent 2014: nine per cent, see note 15.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of one per cent in the assumed rate of property rental growth and one per cent in the discount rate holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Change in growth Change in discount Change in growth Change in discount rate - 1.0% rate - 1.0% rate - 0.5% rate - 1.0% m m m m Available-for-sale assets 16 15 11 10 10 11 17 15 The Group has entered into several long-term fixed price Power Purchase agreements with independent producers.
Included within derivative financial liabilities is 14 million 2014: 3 million within derivative financial assets relating to these agreements.
The Group values its Power Purchase agreements as the net present value of the estimated future usage at the contracted fixed price less the market implied forward energy price discounted back at the prevailing swap rate.
The Group also makes an assumption regarding expected energy output based on the historical performance and the producers estimate of expected electricity output.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 20 per cent in the assumed rate of energy output and 20 per cent in the implied forward energy prices holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Change Change in Change Change in in volume electricity forward in volume electricity forward - 20.0% price - 20.0% - 20.0% price - 10.0% m m m m Derivative financial instruments 3 3 17 18 1 1 10 10 Financial assets and liabilities by category Set out below are the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
Loans and AvailableFair value through Derivatives Other financial receivables for-sale profit or loss used for hedging liabilities Total Group m m m m m m At 14 March 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 1,285 Trade and other receivables 445 445 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,011 3,011 Available-for-sale financial assets 184 184 Trade and other payables 2,935 2,935 Current borrowings 260 260 Non-current borrowings 2,506 2,506 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,661 3,661 Derivative financial instruments 28 5 23 4,741 184 28 5 9,362 4,460 At 15 March 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 1,592 Trade and other receivables 398 398 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,575 2,575 Available-for-sale financial assets 255 255 Trade and other payables 2,675 2,675 Current borrowings 534 534 Non-current borrowings 2,250 2,250 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,547 3,547 Derivative financial instruments 3 6 9 4,565 255 3 6 9,006 4,195 128 Financial Statements 29 Financial instruments continued Loans and AvailableFair value through Derivatives used Other financial receivables for-sale profit or loss for hedging liabilities Total Company m m m m m m At 14 March 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 92 92 Trade and other receivables 2,758 2,758 Available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Trade and other payables 5,220 5,220 Current borrowings 87 87 Non-current borrowings 764 764 Derivative financial instruments 14 16 2 2,850 37 14 16 6,071 3,182 At 15 March 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 136 136 Trade and other receivables 2,651 2,651 Available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Trade and other payables 5,320 5,320 Current borrowings 341 341 Non-current borrowings 394 394 Derivative financial instruments 6 20 14 2,787 37 6 20 6,055 3,217 30 Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations relate to a defined benefit scheme, the Sainsburys Pension Scheme the Scheme, and an unfunded pension liability relating tosenior employees.
The Scheme is governed by a Trustee board and the assets of the Scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme isaRegistered pension plan with HMRC, subject to UK legislation with oversight from the Pensions Regulator.
The governance of the Scheme is the responsibility of the Trustee: the Trustee comprises 11 Directors five selected from members, five appointed by the Company and one Independent Chairman.
In accordance with legislation, the Trustee consults with the Company regarding the Schemes investment strategy and agrees an appropriate funding plan with the Company.
The Scheme has three different benefit categories: Final Salary, Career Average and Cash Balance.
For Final Salary and Career Average members, benefits at retirement are determined by length of service and salary.
For Cash Balance members, benefits are determined by the accrued retirement account credits.
The Scheme was closed to new employees on 31 January 2002 and closed to future accrual on 28 September 2013.
A one-off past service credit was recognised in 2013 14 as a result as disclosed in note 3.
The assets of the Scheme are valued at bid price and are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation, carried out by Towers Watson, at 17 March 2012 on the projected unit basis.
The results of this valuation were finalised in August 2013 and a recovery plan agreed.
Under the Schemes recovery plan, the Company will pay annual deficit contributions of 49 million per annum for eight consecutive financial years to 2020.
This plan is reviewed once every three years, with the next valuation effective date in March 2015 and statutory completion date in June 2016.
The retirement benefit obligations at the year-end have been calculated by KPMG, as actuarial advisers to the Group, using the projected unit credit method and based on adjusting the position at 17 March 2012 for known events and changes in market conditions as allowed under IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership Further to the funding plan agreed with the Schemes Trustees, on 17 June 2010 Sainsburys established the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, properties to a fair value of 256 million were transferred to the Partnership.
On 25 March 2011, further properties to a fair value of 501 million were transferred to the Partnership.
Both transfers were effected via a 30 year sale and leaseback arrangement.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution for 20 years to 2030.
The amount of this distribution is linked to the triennial actuarial valuation and will therefore vary once every three years.
The annual distribution in previous years has been approximately 33 million and for 2015 16 it is expected to be in the region of 29 million.
These contributions will be in addition to the Groups normal cash contributions paid to the Scheme annually.
The properties transferred to the Partnership will revert to Sainsburys ownership in 2030 in return for a cash payment equal to the amount of any remaining funding deficit on the Scheme at that time, up to a maximum of 600 million.
The Partnership is controlled by Sainsburys and its results are consolidated by the Group.
The Groups balance sheet, IAS 19 deficit and income statement are unchanged by the establishment of the Partnership.
The investment held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements and is therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets.
The value of the properties transferred to the Partnership remains included within the Groups property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet.
In addition, the Group retains full operational flexibility to extend, develop and substitute the properties within the Partnership.
129 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Present value of funded obligations 7,680 6,855 Fair value of plan assets 6,988 6,131 692 724 Present value of unfunded obligations 16 13 Retirement benefit obligations 708 737 Deferred income tax asset 57 58 Net retirement benefit obligations 651 679 The retirement benefit obligation and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
a Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Included within underlying profit before tax: IAS 19 defined benefit service cost 34 Included in employee costs note 7 34 Excluded from underlying profit before tax: 1 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 288 290 Interest income on plan assets 257 267 Total included in finance costs note 6 31 23 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 6 7 2 Past service credit 158 Total excluded from underlying profit before tax note 3 37 128 Total income statement expense credit 37 94 1 Includes interest of 1 million for the unfunded pension scheme 2014: nil.
2 One-off items presented within note 3 also include transition payments to defined contribution schemes of 17 million 2014: 10 million.
Of the expense recognised in operating profit, nil 2014: 21 million is included in cost of sales and nil 2014: 13 million is included in administrative expenses.
A past service credit of nil 2014: 158 million has been recognised in administrative expenses.
b Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of the retirement benefit obligations have been recognised as follows: 2015 2014 m m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 696 70 Actuarial losses arising from changes in: 1 Financial assumptions 735 416 Experience 20 20 Total actuarial losses 715 396 Total remeasurements 19 326 1 Includes 2 million for the unfunded pension scheme 2014: nil.
130 Financial Statements 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued c Valuations The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows: 2015 2014 m m As at the beginning of the year 6,855 6,460 Current service cost 34 Past service credit 158 Interest cost 287 290 Contributions by plan participants 3 Remeasurement losses 713 396 Benefits paid 175 170 As at the end of the year 7,680 6,855 The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 m m As at the beginning of the year 6,131 5,841 Interest income on plan assets 257 267 Pension scheme expenses 6 7 Remeasurement gains 696 70 Contributions by employer 85 127 Contributions by plan participants 3 Benefits paid 175 170 As at the end of the year 6,988 6,131 The Groups expected contributions to the defined benefit scheme for the next financial year beginning 15 March 2015 are 83 million 2014: 86 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 % % Equities 27 29 Government bonds 14 6 Corporate bonds 34 36 Property 4 4 Other 21 25 100 100 The fair value of plan assets split between those which have a quoted market price in an active market and those which are unquoted is as follows: 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m m m m Equities 1,704 215 1,919 1,592 209 1,801 Government bonds 979 979 355 355 Corporate bonds 2,422 21 2,401 2,173 57 2,230 Property 274 7 281 218 11 229 Other 712 696 1,408 644 872 1,516 6,091 897 6,988 4,982 1,149 6,131 131 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued d Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2015 2014 % % Discount rate 3.50 4.25 Inflation rate RPI 3.00 3.40 Inflation rate CPI 2.00 2.40 Future salary increases n a n a Future pension increases 1.80 2.85 2.15 3.20 The discount rate is based on the yield on AA-rated sterling corporate bonds appropriate to the term of the Schemes liabilities.
The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age now 65 years for men and women is as follows: 2015 2014 years years Male pensioner 22.7 22.6 Female pensioner 25.4 25.3 The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a future pensioner at normal retirement age is as follows: 2015 2014 years years Male pensioner 24.5 24.4 Female pensioner 27.3 27.2 The base mortality assumptions are based on the SAPS tables, with adjustments to reflect the Schemes population, with future improvements based on the CMI 2011 projection with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25 per cent per annum.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21 years 2014: 21 years.
e Sensitivities An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 755 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 880 million.
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 505 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 480 million.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 240 million.
The sensitivities are based on managements best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change.
The sensitivities are calculated using the same methodology used to calculate the retirement benefit obligation, by considering the change in the retirement benefit obligation for a given change in assumption.
The net retirement benefit obligation is the difference between the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the fair value of plan assets.
There has been no change in the calculation methodology since the prior period.
f Other disclosures The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or Scheme specific risks.
The Trustees investment strategy mitigates some of these risks.
Market investment risk is addressed by diversification across asset classes and investment managers.
Approximately 75 per cent of the Schemes non-sterling asset exposure is hedged back to sterling.
A framework governs the hedging of interest rate and inflation risk exposures with a 60 per cent 2014: 50 per cent hedging target for both.
Physical assets and derivative instruments are used to hedge these risks.
The target hedge ratios and the hedging framework are kept under review by the Trustee and the Company is consulted when changes are made to either.
The Trustee does not currently hedge longevity risk although prudent assumptions are made regarding anticipated longevity for the purposes of the Actuarial Valuation and Recovery Plan.
132 Financial Statements 31 Share-based payments The Group recognised 21 million 2014: 33 million of employee costs note 7 related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year.
Ofthese, nil 2014: nil were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
At 14 March 2015, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was 6 million 2014: 7 million of which nil 2014: 1 million was in respect of vested grants.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below: a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is an approved HMRC Scheme and was established in 1980.
Under Sharesave, participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year or five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 14 March 2015, UK employees held 25,016 five-year savings contracts 2014: 21,445 in respect of options over 22.6 million shares 2014: 20.4 million and 39,675 three-year savings contracts 2014: 24,950 in respect of options over 32.4 million shares 2014: 27.9 million.
A reconciliation of option movements is shownbelow: 2015 2014 2015 Weighted 2014 Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price million pence million pence Outstanding at the beginning of the year 48.3 279 47.1 261 Granted 23.5 213 13.7 332 Forfeited 9.2 288 5.4 277 Exercised 7.6 247 6.9 266 Expired 261 0.2 257 Outstanding at the end of the year 55.0 254 48.3 279 Exercisable at the end of the year 5.8 253 3.3 260 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 290 pence 2014: 346 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 2.4 years 2014: 2.3 years.
Details of options at 14 March 2015 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2015 2014 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 17 December 2008 5 year period 31 August 2014 224 1.7 10 December 2009 5 year period 31 August 2015 273 2.5 3.1 10 December 2010 3 year period 31 August 2014 297 1.6 10 December 2010 5 year period 31 August 2016 297 2.8 3.3 9 December 2011 3 year period 31 August 2015 238 3.5 8.7 9 December 2011 5 year period 31 August 2017 238 4.1 4.7 12 December 2012 3 year period 31 August 2016 267 6.4 8.0 12 December 2012 5 year period 31 August 2018 267 3.1 3.7 11 December 2013 3 year period 31 August 2017 332 6.7 9.5 11 December 2013 5 year period 31 August 2019 332 2.9 4.0 12 December 2014 3 year period 31 August 2018 213 15.8 12 December 2014 5 year period 31 August 2020 213 7.2 55.0 48.3 133 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2015 2014 Share price at grant date pence 265 415 Exercise price pence 213 332 Expected volatility 3 year period % 21.9 18.8 5 year period % 21.2 20.8 Option life 3 year period years 3.2 3.2 5 year period years 5.2 5.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 5.6 4.5 Risk-free interest rate 3 year period % 1.6 2.2 5 year period % 2.1 3.5 Fair value per option 3 year period pence 43 74 5 year period pence 41 87 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three or five years, as appropriate, on the assumption that 25 per cent of options will be cancelledover the service period as employees leave the Sharesave Scheme.
b Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the senior managers in the Company.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grades.
The awards granted between 2006 and 2011 will vest if the threshold levels of two co-dependent performance conditions Return on Capital Employed ROCE and growth in cash flow per share are achieved over the three-year performance period.
The award granted in 2012 and 2013 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, with an Earnings Per Share gateway.
The award granted in 2014 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index.
The core award can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance.
Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points.
Awards are structured as nil cost options.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 50per cent of the award will be released.
Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released one year after the vesting date.
Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date.
Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met: Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Date of conditional award Cash flow per share % Return on capital employed % 21 June 2010 15 15 19 May 2011 12 15 Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Date of conditional award Cumulative underlying cash flow Return on capital employed % Relative sales 17 May 2012 6,500m 12 Index 1% p. a.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2015 2014 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7.0 9.1 Conditionally allocated 2.1 1.9 Forfeited 0.8 0.4 Released to participants 2.2 3.6 Outstanding at the end of the year 6.1 7.0 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.5 years 2014: 1.3 years.
134 Financial Statements 31 Share-based payments continued Details of shares conditionally allocated at 15 March 2014 are set out below: 2015 2014 Date of conditional award million million 24 June 2009 0.1 21 June 2010 0.2 1.6 19 May 2011 0.7 1.5 17 May 2012 1.6 1.9 16 May 2013 1.6 1.9 15 May 2014 2.0 6.1 7.0 Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2015 2014 Share price at grant date pence 334 384 Expected volatility % 20.9 15.3 Option life years 4.2 4.2 Risk-free interest rate % 2.7 1.6 Fair value per option pence 334 384 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
In March 2014, the three-year performance targets were met achieving a multiplier of 1.60 2013: 1.75.
During the year, a total number of 1.6 million shares weregranted to employees as a result of achieving the performance target and 4.6 million options were exercised.
The weighted average share price during theyear for options exercised was 322 pence 2014: 378 pence.
c Deferred Share Award The Deferred Share Award targets a diverse range of business critical financial and strategic scorecard measures.
These are intended to reward the top 40 managers in the Company, including Executive Directors, for driving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company.
Share-based awards will be made to participants subject to performance against a basket of measures.
At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The balance will be based on measures which will assess the Companys performance relative to its competitors as well as key strategic goals.
Performance against the target is measured over one financial year, but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that managements interests continue to be aligned with those of shareholders.
The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2015 2014 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.6 3.6 Granted 1.5 1.3 Exercised 1.6 2.3 Outstanding at the end of the year 2.5 2.6 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2015 2014 million million 17 May 2012 1.3 16 May 2013 1.2 1.3 15 May 2014 1.3 2.5 2.6 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.5 years 2014: 1.5 years.
135 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued d Bonus Share Award The bonus arrangements for our senior managers and supermarket store managers include corporate and personal performance targets.
A profit gateway is inplace which means that a certain level of underlying profit before tax must be achieved before any bonus related to the corporate element of the bonus isreleased.
60 per cent of the bonus is paid in cash and 40 per cent converted into shares, which are automatically released after three financial years.
The share element of the bonus arrangement is called the Bonus Share Award.
Bonus Shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on these shares and are released at the end of the three-year retention period.
Our top 40 managers do not receive Bonus Share Awards as they receive Deferred Share Awards.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2015 2014 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7.5 3.5 Granted 3.9 4.4 Lapsed 1.2 0.4 Outstanding at the end of the year 10.2 7.5 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2015 2014 million million 17 May 2012 3.0 3.3 16 May 2013 3.7 4.2 15 May 2014 3.5 10.2 7.5 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.2 years 2014: 1.7 years.
32 Related party transactions Group In the prior year, the Group sold two properties with a fair value of 103 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership, a Scottish partnership in which the Group has a 0.001 per cent interest, and subsequently entered into a 25 year lease of these properties.
The operations of the partnership are controlled by the JSainsbury Pension Scheme and the Group has significant influence over the partnership by virtue of its contractual rights as General Partner to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the partnership.
The partnership is therefore treated as an Investment in Associate in the Groups consolidated financial statements and accounted for using the equity method.
The gain on the disposal of the properties recognised outside of underlying profit was nil 2014: 10 million and lease payments made to the partnership during the year were 6 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership 2014: 3 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership.
a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 10 11 Post-employment employee benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 9 10 20 22 Nine key management personnel had credit card balances with Sainsburys Bank 2014: nine.
These arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
Three key management personnel held saving deposit accounts with Sainsburys Bank 2014: nine.
Thesebalances arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
136 Financial Statements 32 Related party transactions continued b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below.
2015 2014 m m Management services received provided 1 16 Remeasurement of previously held equity interest in Sainsburys Bank 15 Revenue share received from joint ventures 17 4 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 Dividend and distributions received 70 1 Proceeds from repayment of loan to joint venture 17 4 Investment in joint ventures and associates 12 13 Increase in loans to joint ventures 7 Rental expenses paid 65 72 Purchase of assets 24 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2015 2014 m m Receivables Other receivables 37 21 Loans due from joint ventures 2 18 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 c Retirement benefit obligations As discussed in note 30, the Group has entered into an arrangement with the Pension Scheme Trustee as part of the funding plan for the actuarial deficit in the Scheme.
Full details of this arrangement are set out in note 30 to these financial statements.
Company a Subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis.
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances.
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
Transactions with subsidiaries 2015 2014 m m Acquisition of Sainsburys Bank 248 1 Repayment of floating rate subordinated dated undated loan capital from Sainsburys Bank 60 50 Investment in Sainsburys Bank 59 70 Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries Loans and advances given 229 236 Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries 45 138 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 201 183 Dividend income received 252 250 Loans and advances received from subsidiaries Loans and advances received 275 282 Loans and advances repaid 21 218 Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 56 132 1 The 60 mil lion dated subordinated loan capital was repaid in December 2014 2014: 50 million undated subordinated loan capital was repaid in February 2014 following agreement in writing from the Prudential Regulation Authority.
137 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions continued Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries 2015 2014 m m Receivables Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 2,758 2,591 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 60 Payables Loans and advances due to subsidiaries 5,201 5,290 b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below.
2015 2014 m m Investment in joint ventures 12 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2015 2014 m m Receivables Loans due from joint ventures Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 33 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2015 2014 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Within one year 585 554 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,171 2,071 After five years 7,040 6,402 9,796 9,027 Further analysis of the Groups future minimum lease payments after five years is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Greater than five years but less than ten years 1,897 1,811 Greater than ten years but less than 15 years 1,319 1,252 After 15 years 3,824 3,339 7,040 6,402 The commercial terms of the Groups operating leases vary, however they commonly include either a market rent review or an index linked rent review with a cap and collar.
The timing of when rent reviews take place differs for each lease.
The Group has pre-emption rights over a minor number of properties, which provides the Group with the right of first refusal to purchase the property in the event the landlord chooses to sell.
The option price payable for the asset in each instance is normally referenced to current market value prevailing at the point of pre-emption.
For the purposes of calculating adjusted net debt, the total value of the Groups capitalised operating lease commitments is 5,417 million 2014: 5,095 million.
The Group sublets certain leased properties: 2015 2014 m m Aggregate future minimum lease receipts: Within one year 34 25 In the second to fifth years inclusive 120 86 After five years 123 104 277 215 138 Financial Statements 34 Capital commitments The Group has entered into contracts totalling 164 million 2014: 230 million for future capital expenditure in relation to property, plant and equipment and 13million 2014: nil for intangible assets not provided for in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any capital commitments 2014: nil.
35 Financial commitments Sainsburys Bank has off balance sheet financial instruments committing it to extend credit to customers of 79 million 2014: 58 million.
36 Contingent liabilities The Group has a contingent liability for indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries.
No provision has been recognised on the basis that any potential liability arising is not considered probable.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this liability with any certainty.
The Company has no contingent liabilities and has issued no guarantees under Companies Act 2006 Section 394A or 479C.
37 Capital resources The following table analyses the regulatory capital resources of Sainsburys Bank before any Group adjustments, being the regulated entity, under both transitional and end point measures of CRD IV for which there is no difference.
CRD IV regulations are being phased in over a five-year period from 2013 to 2018: 2015 2014 m m Core Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital: Ordinary share capital 299 240 Allowable reserves 184 138 Losses recognised 26 Regulatory adjustments 104 35 Total Core Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital 353 343 Tier 1 Capital 353 343 Tier 2 capital: Qualifying subordinated debt 10 Total Tier 2 capital 10 Total capital 353 353 Regulatory capital is calculated under the Capital Requirements Regulations and Capital Requirements Directive collectively known as CRD IV as enacted in the UK.
Core Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital includes ordinary share capital, other reserves, losses and regulatory deductions.
Tier 2 capital held at 28 February 2014 represented the amortised value of dated subordinated debt which was repaid to J Sainsbury plc on maturity in December 2014.
There is a regulatory requirement that Tier 2 capital must not exceed 25 per cent of total capital.
The Bank meets this requirement.
The movement of CET 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2015 m At 1 March 2014 343 Share capital issued 59 1 Verified profit attributable to shareholders 46 Losses recognised 26 Increase in intangible assets 69 Increase in other regulatory deductions At 28 February 2015 353 1 R elates to Bank audited profits to December 2013 which were not recognised in regulatory reserves in the prior year financial statements.
These were not yet verified by the Banks auditors at the accounting date.
It is now standard industry practice to include annual profits in reserves for the period to which they relate, providing these have been verified prior to the date the financial statements are signed.
Losses are recognised as a deduction from CET 1 capital as they arise.
139 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Capital resources continued Leverage ratio unaudited The leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted assets.
The denominator represents the total non-risk weighted assets adjusted for certain off balance sheet exposures assets and regulatory deductions and provides a no-risk-weighted backstop capital measure.
The leverage ratio is planned to become a Pillar 1 measure from 1 January 2018.
The leverage ratio is calculated below as at 28 February 2015 this represents both transitional and end point CRD IV measures.
The Banks leverage ratio of 7.4 per cent exceeds the minimum Basel leverage ratio of three per cent.
The Financial Policy committee of the Bank of England are currently consulting on additional leverage requirements for UK banks.
2015 m Components of the leverage ratio Total assets as per published financial statements 4,236 Removal of accounting value of derivatives and securities financing transactions 1 Exposure value for derivatives and securities financing transactions 5 Off balance sheet exposures: unconditionally cancellable 10% 313 Off balance sheet: other 100% 318 Deduction of intangible assets 104 4,767 Tier 1 capital 353 Leverage ratio 7.4% Capital management The Bank manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities.
During the period to 28 February 2015, the Bank has repaid dated subordinated liabilities of 60m amortised to nil within Tier 2 regulatory capital upon maturity and has received planned injections of 59m of ordinary share capital to support the forecast costs and deductible intangible assets generated through the development of flexible banking platforms.
Capital adequacy is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management, the Asset and Liability Committee, the Executive Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Our submissions to the PRA in the year have shown that the Bank has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements.
The Bank will disclose Pillar 3 information as required by the Capital Requirements Regulations and PRA prudential sourcebook on the J Sainsbury plc external website during June 2015.
38 Post balance sheet event On 5 May 2015, the Group refinanced its unsecured 1,150 million syndicated revolving credit facility due 2019 with a new secured recourse 1,150 million syndicated revolving credit facility due 2020.
The new secured corporate facility is the same size as, and has substantially similar economic terms to, the previous unsecured facility, with the structure also maintained on a dual tranche basis a 500 million Facility A due April 2018 and 650 million Facility B due April 2020.
The new facility, which is secured against 60 supermarket properties with a net book value of 1.4 billion, contains no financial covenants.
On 5 May 2015, the Group amended its 200 million unsecured bank loan due November 2019 and its 50 million unsecured bank loan due September 2016 into a secured recourse 200 million bank loan due November 2019 and a secured recourse 50 million bank loan due September 2016.
The amended bank loans, which are secured against ten supermarket properties with a net book value of 0.2 billion, contain no financial covenants.
