Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to ESOP Trusts Employee Share Ownership PRA Prudential Regulation Authority.
help inspire school children to take more Plan Trusts.
Real discount rate Discount rate less exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an inflation rate.
in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, independent consumer label that guarantees primary and secondary schools as well as ROCE Return on capital employed.
a fair deal for marginalised workers and Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
small scale farmers in developing countries.
co. uk activekids Producers receive a minimum price that Taste the Difference Sainsburys Annual General Meeting AGM This year covers the cost of production and an extra premium own-brand range of products.
the AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 July premium that is invested in the local 2015 at QEII Centre, Broad Sanctuary, community.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
uk growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends basics Sainsburys entry level own-brand Fair value The amount for which an asset are reinvested to purchase additional units of range of products.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, the stock.
between knowledgeable, willing parties in an bps Basis points.
Tu Sainsburys own label clothing range.
Brand Match Initiative using marketFTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing Underlying basic earnings per share leading technology guaranteeing price company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to Profit after tax from continuing operations match on the basket of comparable grocery measure the performance of companies that attributable to equity holders of the parent branded goods with Asda.
Over 12,000 meet CR standards, and to facilitate before any profit or loss on the disposal of branded grocery lines are included and the investment in those companies.
properties, investment property fair value initiative works by offering customers who www.
com products indices movements, impairment of goodwill, buy ten or more unique items and at least FTSE4Good retailing financing fair value movements, the coupon at the till.
We one branded product, a financing element of IAS 19, defined benefit even include promotions provided the same FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
pension scheme expenses, acquisition number of products are bought.
Maximum Method of valuing a financial instrument adjustments arising from the Sainsburys value of coupons 10. where changes in fair value are recognised Bank acquisition, and one-off items that are directly in the income statement.
by Sainsburys Core own label brand.
material and infrequent in nature, divided by Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
weighted average number of ordinary shares Click & Collect Service which allows in issue during the year, excluding those held customers to place general merchandise Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
by ESOP trusts, which are treated as orders online for collection from over 900 IFRIC International Financial Reporting cancelled.
Underlying cash flow from operations CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed IFRSs International Financial Reporting Underlying cash generated from operations Securities.
Standard s. before net rent and cash payments to the Collection Sainsburys own-brand general pension scheme.
Income Statement Formerly known as merchandising products.
the profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
Underlying operating profit Underlying Company J Sainsbury plc.
profit before tax from continuing operations Joint venture JV A business jointly before underlying net finance costs and Corporate Responsibility and owned by two or more parties.
underlying share of post-tax profit or loss Sustainability CR&S The need to act Kantar Worldpanel An independent third from joint ventures.
responsibly in managing our impact on a party providing data on the UK Grocery range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, Underlying profit before tax Profit before Market.
investors, suppliers, the community and the tax from continuing operations attributable environment.
Life Well For Less Sainsburys customer to equity holders of the parent before any commitment to continue to help people live profit or loss on the disposal of properties, CPI Consumer Price Index.
the life they want to live, with quality investment property fair value movements, Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax products at fair prices.
impairment of goodwill, retailing financing from continuing operations attributable to fair value movements, thefinancing element Like-for-like sales The measure of equity shareholders divided by total value of IAS 19, defined benefit pension scheme year-on-year same store growth.
ofdividends declared during the year.
expenses, acquisition adjustments arising LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
out of the Sainsburys Bank acquisition, and Earnings Per Share EPS Earnings one-off items that are material and attributable to ordinary shareholders of the MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
parent divided by the weighted average Nectar The most popular loyalty scheme number of ordinary shares in issue during in the UK, of which Sainsburys is a partner.
the year, excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Non-controlling interest The equity in asubsidiary not attributable, directly or EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, indirectly, to the Company.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
