Achievements Convenience Retailer of the Year Green Retailer of the Year For the fifth year running, we won Convenience We received our second consecutive Green Retailer of the Year at the 2014 Retail Industry Retailer of the Year award at the 2014 Grocer Awards.
Amongst other environmental initiatives, our Triple Zero stores and CO 2 refrigerated vehicles were recognised.
Training Initiative of the Year Grocer 33 Availability Award Our commitment to helping colleagues make We won the Grocer 33 Availability Award, based the difference for our customers was recognised, on the mystery shopping trips The Grocer carries with our Great Produce programme winning out every week in supermarkets across the UK.
Training Initiative of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards.
Seafood Retailer of the Year Grocer 33 Customer Service Award We won the Seafood Retailer of the Year category We won the Grocer 33 Customer Service Award, at the Retail Industry Awards.
based on the mystery shopping trips The Grocer carries out every week in supermarkets across the UK.
Drinks Retailer of the Year CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014 We were awarded Drinks Retailer of the Year for the third consecutive year at the Retail Industry We were awarded a position in the Carbon Awards.
Disclosure Projects CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014, recognising our work to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the business risk of climate change.
FTSE4Good Dow Jones Sustainability Index We have been part of the FTSE4Good index We were the only UK company to be ranked as since its inception in 2001.
The index evaluates a Sustainability Leader in the Food and Staples businesses against key social, environmental Retailing category of the 2014 Dow Jones andgovernance practices.
This year we outperformed 92 per cent of our industry and obtained the highest score for environmental performance worldwide.
MSC Fish Retailer of the Year Freedom Food Awards In recognition of selling the widest range of We won Best Retailer at the 2014 Freedom Food Marine Stewardship Council MSC certified Awards for our outstanding contribution to farm products, we received the 2014 MSC Fish Retailer animal welfare.
Recruitment Industry Disability Investors in People Gold Initiative RIDI Awards Since 2010 we have maintained Gold accreditation for our commitment to improve We were recognised at the inaugural RIDI Awards our business by investing in our colleagues.
2014, for excellence in candidate sourcing.
Since Weare the only supermarket ever to receive 2008, our You Can scheme has helped over thisaccolade.
24,000 people facing barriers to work.
146 Notes 147 Notes 148 This report is printed on UPM Fine.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system TM ISO 14001 and is also CarbonNeutral The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Our colleagues make the difference.
Our values make us different.
