Directors Report Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
attention of the Board during the year into account, we are satisfied that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each and understandable.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial The Board believes that the disclosures set out on pages 1 to 39, 50, 52 and 75 Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under of this Annual Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
unlessthey are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the forthat period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 41, andprudent: confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, in the financial statements: and liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is the Strategic Report and Directors Report contained in the Annual Report inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue and financial statements include a fair review of the development and inbusiness.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys By order of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 Tim Fallowfield of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 5 May 2015 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
