Directors Report Operating Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 42 Directors Report 1.
Angie Risley Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary and Corporate Group HR Director See page 41 Angie was appointed Group HR Director and a Services Director member of the Operating Board in January 2013 Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company 2.
John Rogers with responsibility for human resources and is Secretary and joined the Operating Board in 2004.
Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Great Place to Work Steering In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim See page 41 Committee.
She is also a Non-Executive Director is responsible for the Corporate Services Division ofSerco Group plc and chairs their Remuneration comprising Legal Services, Public Affairs, Safety, 3.
Angie was most recently Group HR Shareholder Services, Insurance, Data Governance Business Development Director Director at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to and Central Security.
He chairs the Group Safety Helen was appointed to the Operating Board thatan Executive Director at Whitbread plc Committee and the Data Governance Committee.
She was withresponsibility for HRand Corporate Social Tim joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global appointed Retail Director in March 2012 and Responsibility.
She was amember of the Low logistics company, where he was Company became Business Development Director in May PayCommission.
Secretary and Head of Legal Services 1994-2001.
2014 with responsibility for developing the He began his career at the international law firm business beyond the core, as well as Mobile by 9.
Jon Rudoe Clifford Chance and is a qualified solicitor.
Sainsburys, Sainsburys Energy and our online Digital and Technology Director business.
Peter Griffiths Jon joined the Operating Board in March 2014 and, afterspending four years running Brand withresponsibility for Digital and the IT function.
Chief Executive Officer, Sainsburys Bank Communications, moved to the Trading Division He joined Sainsburys in July 2011 as Director of Peter was appointed Chief Executive Officer, as Business Unit Director, Grocery in 2009.
Online and in March 2013 he also took on Sainsburys Bank in November 2012 and joined Beforejoining Sainsburys, Helen held a number of responsibility for Digital.
Jon joined Sainsburys the Operating Board inMay 2014.
Prior to joining senior positions at Marks and Spencer Group plc, from Ocado where he led marketing, user Sainsburys he was Group Chief Executive of Woolworths and Safeway and was a senior experience, trading, own-brand and supply chain.
Principality, the largest building society in Wales, manager at McKinsey & Company.
Since Previously, Jon was a management consultant at growing it from the 13th largest building society December 2011, Helen has been a Non-Executive Bain & Company and worked in venture capital.
in the UK to the 7th, during his decade in charge.
Director of LSL Property Services PLC.
He previously worked for NatWest 1977-2000, 10.
Sarah Warby and was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan 4.
He is former Chairman of the CBI Marketing Director Retail and Operations Director Wales and the Building Societies Association, and Sarah joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board Roger joined Sainsburys Operating Board in March is a Fellow of UWIC and The Chartered Institute of in January 2012 as Marketing Director.
She has 2006 as Supply Chain Director before assuming Management.
Peter was awarded an OBE in the responsibility for all Sainsburys marketing therole of Retail and Logistics Director 2008-12.
Queens Birthday Honours 2010, in recognition of activity: all-brand communications, in-store, Hewas then appointed Managing Director of his support for the Financial Services Industry.
She also has General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics responsibility for Customer Service and inMarch 2012 and was appointed Retail 7.
Paul Mills-Hicks Experience, as well as Corporate Social andOperations Director in May 2014, with Responsibility and Corporate Affairs.
Sarah Food Commercial Director responsibility for leading the combined team of previously held a number of senior positions at Paul joined the Operating Board in May 2014 as Supermarkets, Convenience and Logistics.
Roger Heineken and was their UK Marketing Director Food Commercial Director having spent more than was previously Supply Chain Director at Matalan.
where she was responsible for a number of the tenyears at Sainsburys.
He was closely involved He spent his early career in retail management UKs most high-profile FMCG brands.
Prior to this, inthe formation and execution of the Making and buying at B&Q before joining ASDA WalMart, she was Innovation Director at Heineken where Sainsburys Great Again strategy in a variety of where he held a number of positions before she led the combined technical and marketing roles in commercial, strategy and finance, most becoming their Supply Chain Director in 2001. team.
Earlier in her career, Sarah worked for several recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery.
InSeptember 2012 he joined the Board of marketing agencies and was a graduate employee Previously Paul was European Controller at Marks Transport for London, for which he is also a at Unilever PLC.
and Spencer Group plc and aDirector at UBS member of the Surface Transport Panel.
Paul is a qualified electronic engineer and aChartered Accountant.
