Additional Shareholder Information Additional shareholder information Financial calendar 2015 16 Shareholder communications Dividend payments Company website Ordinary dividend: J Sainsbury plc Interim and Annual Reports, and results Ex-dividend date 14 May 2015 announcements are available via the internet on our website at Record date 15 May 2015 www.
As well as providing share price data and Final dividend payable 10 July 2015 financial history, the site also provides background information about Ex-dividend date 19 November 2015 the Company, regulatory and news releases, and current issues.
Record date 20 November 2015 Shareholders can receive email notification of results and press Interim dividend payable 4 January 2016 announcements as they are released by registering on the page called Email news service in the Investor section of the website.
Other dates Annual General Meeting London 8 July 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements Interim results announced 11 November 2015 The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 the Annual Interim report available at j-sainsbury.
co. uk 11 November 2015 Report is published on our website at www.
co. uk Preliminary Results announced 4 May 2016 investor-centre reports and has only been sent to those shareholders Annual General Meeting London 6 July 2016 who have asked for a paper copy.
Shareholders who have not requested a paper copy of the Annual Report have been notified of its availability on the website.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday, 8 July 2015 at QEII A paper copy of the Annual Report is available by writing to Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice theCompany Secretary, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, of the Meeting and the proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with 33Holborn, London EC1N 2HT or you can email your request to this report.
Registrars Electronic shareholder communications The Company encourages all shareholders to receive their For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to shareholder communications electronically in order to reduce our report changes to personal details, shareholders should contact: impact on the environment.
Shareholders can register their email address at www.
com jsainsbury and for each new Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholder that does so we will make a donation to the Tree for All The Pavilions campaign run by the Woodland Trust.
By registering with the eTree Bridgwater Road programme you will be giving the Company permission to send all Bristol BS99 6ZZ shareholder documents to you via email with a link to a secure website.
Telephone: 0870 702 0106 Alternatively, the Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take Please remember to tell Computershare if you move house or change advantage of electronic communications.
The service allows you to: bank details or if there is any other change to your account information.
view the Annual Report and Financial Statements on the day it is published: You can view and manage your shareholding online at receive electronic notification of the availability of future shareholder www.
You will require your 11 character information you must register your email for this service : Shareholder Reference Number SRN to log in.
Your SRN starts with check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view your the letter C or G and is followed by ten numbers.
It can be found on dividend history: and share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
Having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building For more information, to view the terms and conditions, and to register society account is a more secure way than receiving your dividend by for the service, log on to www.
co. uk investors, click on cheque.
If you would prefer your dividends to be paid directly into Shareholder Centre and then follow the instructions on screen.
your bank or building society account further information is available Alternatively, register by visiting www.
from Computershare Investor Services address and telephone number above.
You will still receive a tax voucher detailing each For all methods, you will require your 11 character Shareholder dividend to enable you to complete your tax return to HMRC.
Reference Number which can be found on your share certificate or latest tax voucher.
Investor relations For investor enquiries please contact: Duncan Cooper, Head of Investor Relations, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
For further stockbroker or a high street bank who will usually be able to assist information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, you.
Alternatively, you may consider using: Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or freephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys.
The Share Centre Ltd who offer a postal dealing service and they can be contacted at The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or freephone American Depository Receipts ADRs 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys: or The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for which The Computershare who offer a telephone and internet facility which gives Bank of New York Mellon acts as depositary.
shareholders the opportunity to trade at a known price.
The telephone The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in the US service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
The internet share under the symbol JSAIY, where one ADR is equal to four ordinary shares.
dealing service gives shareholders the option to submit instructions to All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: trade online and more information can be found by visiting www.
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Further information and detailed terms and conditions are available PO Box 30170 on request by calling either provider.
College Station TX 77842-3170 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-269-2377 The Company has a DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their International callers can call: 1-201-680-6825 cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through Website: www.
com a specially arranged share dealing service.
No new shares are allotted Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com under this DRIP and approximately 29,193 shareholders participate in it.
Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, ShareGift are available from the Registrars.
Alternatively, you can elect to join the If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for DRIP by registering for Investor Centre at www.
you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which Key dates for the final dividend are as follows: specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock Last date for return of revocation of DRIP mandates 19 June 2015 transfer form may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services DRIP shares purchased for participants 10 July 2015 PLC.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain DRIP share certificates issued 21 July 2015 or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
143 Additional Shareholder Information Continued Share fraud Over the past few years we have been aware, as have many listed companies, that our shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Further information on how to avoid share fraud or report a scam can be found on our website at www.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers Registered office and advisers The Company has adopted the Consolidated Tax Voucher CTV Registered office process in relation to dividend payments.
This means that those J Sainsbury plc shareholders receiving their dividend direct into their bank account 33 Holborn will receive a CTV once a year detailing all payments made London EC1N 2HT throughout that year.
Registered number 185647 Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT Auditors  LLP For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 1 Embankment Place 1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was 91.99 pence and B London WC2N 6RH shares 10.941 pence.
Solicitors Share capital consolidation Linklaters LLP The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary shares One Silk Street of 28 4 7 pence and B shares is made by reference to the market London EC2Y 8HQ value of each class of shares on the first day for which a market value is quoted after the new holding came into existence.
The market Stockbrokers value for CGT purposes of any share or security quoted on the Stock UBS Morgan Stanley Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations 1 Finsbury Avenue 25 Cabot Square on any day plus one quarter of the difference between the values.
London EC2M 2PP Canary Wharf London E14 4QA On Monday, 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: New ordinary shares 257.5 pence B shares 35 pence Cautionary statement General contact details Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward Share price information is available on the Companys website, in the looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and financial press and the Cityline service operated by the Financial uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from Times Telephone: 0906 003 3904. those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, For general enquiries about Sainsburys Finance call: 0500 405 060. statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology For any customer enquiries please contact our Customer Careline by including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, calling: 0800 636 262. intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
