NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.2 GOING CONCERN JimmyChoo PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared on a referred to as the Group is a global luxury shoes and accessories going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation brand owner, wholesaler and retailer incorporated and domiciled in that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the United Kingdom.
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a strong ongoing trading performance.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been Details of the Groups liquidity position and borrowing facilities are prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with described in note 18.
Financial risk management objectives, details International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the offinancial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to EU Adopted IFRS.
credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 23.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
been applied consistently to all years presented in these Group These include the assumptions around the Groups products and financial statements.
markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies, that have a significant effect on the financial Taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading statements and estimates with a significant risk of material performance and after making enquiries, the Directors have a adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note 2. reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 1.1 MEASUREMENT CONVENTION theforeseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors consider it The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost appropriateto continue to adopt the going concern basis basis, except for financial instruments that are measured at revalued in preparing the financialstatements.
amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting year, as explained 1.3 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and On 16 October 2014, the Company obtained control of the entire services.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set outbelow.
share capital of Choo Luxury Group Limited by way of a share-forshare exchange with one share in the Company being exchanged for Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid each share in Choo Luxury Group Limited.
There were no changes in to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market rights or proportion of control exercised as a result of this transaction.
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation Although the share-for-share exchange resulted in a change in legal technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the ownership, in substance the comparative financial statements reflect Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability the continuation of the pre-existing Group, headed by Choo Luxury ifmarket participants would take those characteristics into account GroupLimited.
when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value SUBSIDIA RIES for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these consolidated Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the IFRS2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS17 ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
andmeasurements that have some similarities to fair value but are Inassessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS2 or value in use voting rights that are currently exercisable.
thedate on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements statements from the date that control commences until the date that are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which control ceases.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised theinputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the profits on transactions between Group companies are eliminated significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its inpreparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
entirety, which are described as follows: Employee benefit trusts that are controlled by the Group are Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets consolidated on the same basis as subsidiaries as set out above.
foridentical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date: 1.4 ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
or indirectly: and Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has jointcontrol.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.6 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CON TINUED Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only atcost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total a they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or investees, from the date that significant influence or joint control financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are commences until the date that significant influence or joint control potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Groups own equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no tonil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the obligation to deliver a variable number of the Groups own equity extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Groups ormade payments on behalf of an investee.
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for afixed number of its own equity instruments.
The Group currently has one associate, for which equity accounting isapplied.
In addition, the Group has one joint venture which is To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are consolidated as a subsidiary, as the Directors have concluded that classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified theGroup has control over the entity by virtue of its control over takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts votingrights.
presented in these financial statements for called up share capital exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
1.5 FOREIGN CURRENCY FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATIONAL CURRENCIES FINANCIAL ASSETS Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic consolidated balance sheet when the entity becomes a party environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups orsubstantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
TRADE RECEIVABLES TRANSACTIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective formaturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are lessany provision for impairment.
retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the amount of the provision is determined as the difference between the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the cash flows and is recognised in the consolidated income statement functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates inadministrative expenses.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS TRANSL ATION OF THE RESULTS OF OVERSEAS BUSINESSES Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and at call with banks with an original maturity of three months or less.
fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash Groups presentational currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at and cash equivalents includes bank overdrafts in addition to the the balance sheet date.
The revenue and expenses of foreign definition above.
operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates FINANCIAL LIABILITIES ofthe transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according offoreign operations are reported as an item of other comprehensive tothe substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
income and accumulated in the translation reserve.
Anequity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity The Groups financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are borrowings and other non-current liabilities.
All financial liabilities are recognised in other comprehensive income.
recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest method except for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting and are held at fair value.
The fairvalue of the Groups liabilities held at amortised cost are approximately equal to their carrying amount.
A financial liability isderecognised when the obligation specified in the contract isdischarged, cancelled or expires.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.8 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CON TINUED Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using I.
BANK BORROWINGS the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred in a business All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the of the acquisition date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, borrowing.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for control of the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings and liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value.
thecost of foreign currency forward contracts.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration II.
TRADE PAYABLES transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity formaturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed III.
PUT OPTION LIABILITIES OVER NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any Put options over shares in subsidiaries or joint ventures held by non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through acquirers previously held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess equity when granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchasegain.
at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in theconsolidated income statement as other finance expenses When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business andincome.
combination includes an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured IV.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in fair exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are probable cash flows in relation to future sales and product purchases.
adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain theacquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised in the atthe acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the 1.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is notremeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent ofproperty, plant and equipment.
reporting dates in accordance with IAS39 or IAS37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and thecorresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Operating lease payments are accounted for as described When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups at1.16 Operating leases below.
previously held interests in the acquired entity is remeasured to its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit asfollows: or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
Leasehold improvements between 2 and 10 years Fixtures and fittings, plant and machinery between 3 and 15 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The brand value is not amortised but subject to an impairment CON TINUED testwhich is performed annually or more frequently if events or If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may bythe end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, not be recoverable.
the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted For further details see 1.12 Impairment excluding inventories and during the measurement period see above, or additional assets or deferred tax assets.
liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about KEY MONEY facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if Key money paid to the outgoing tenant to enter a leasehold property known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of thatdate.
is stated within intangible assets at cost, net of amortisation and any 1.9 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS provision for impairment.
Amortisation is charged on key money at Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with which in some locations and geographies equates to cost on a owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is straight-line basis over the lease term.
recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the The cost of securing and renewing design patents, trademarks and net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid other intangible assets is capitalised at purchase price and amortised orreceived and the amount by which non-controlling interests are by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the expected to accrue.
The useful economic life of these assets is ownersof the parent.
determined on a case by case basis, in accordance with the terms 1.10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL ofthe underlying agreement and the nature of the asset.
GOODW IL L A MOR TISATION Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised Amortisation is charged to the statement of profit and loss on a but tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite berecoverable.
useful life including the JimmyChoo brand and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available eachof the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of the Trademarks between 5 and 10 years cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of Software between 3 and 7 years goodwill and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed in 1.11 INVENTORIES subsequent years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the weighted average principle and includes For further details see 1.12 Impairment excluding inventories and expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs deferred tax assets.
inbringing them to their existing location and condition.
BR A ND Brands acquired in a business combination are recognised at Where necessary, provision is made to reduce the cost to no more fairvalue at the acquisition date and are carried at cost less than net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition accumulated impairment.
ofinventory, as well as anticipated utilisation and saleability.
1.12 IMPAIRMENT EXCLUDING INVENTORIES AND DEFERRED TAX ASSETS The JimmyChoo brand is the only intangible asset that is considered FINANCIAL ASSETS INCLUDING RECEIVABLES to have an indefinite useful life on the basis that: A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is the brand is central to the business strategy, differentiating the objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if products in the market through building a reputation for excellence objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the and it is not considered realistic to abandon the brand given its initial recognition of the asset and that the loss event has a negative importance to the business: effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be the brand does not face technological obsolescence and the estimated reliably.
luxury market is not a sector with a definite life: the Group is able to protect the brand and associated products An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at from counterfeiters or other infringements through securing amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying protection of its intellectual property and enforcing this through amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows litigation where necessary: and discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest on the Group dedicates sufficient resources to support the brand and the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding plans to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
This includes of the discount.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of investment across all forms of media to convey the fundamental impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is tenets of the brand.
reversed through profit or loss.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.14 PROVISIONS CON TINUED A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is Ifany such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific to isestimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite theliability.
useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 1.15 REVENUE RECOGNITION amount is estimated each year at the same time.
Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less thegreater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Inassessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Retail sales, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from customers.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of calculated based on historical return levels.
other assets or groups of assets the cash-generating unit.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of Royalty revenue from licensing agreements is recognised on an impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs.
accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that agreement provided that it is probable that the economic benefits the level at which impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes which measuredreliably.
does not exceed the level of individual operating segments.
Goodwill 1.16 OPERATING LEASES acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
recognised as an expense in the year in which they are incurred.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into an and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the operating lease such incentives are recognised as a liability.
Lease units on a pro rata basis.
incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense on astraight-line basis over the lease term, except where another An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior years are whicheconomic benefits from the lease are consumed.
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss hasdecreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed Premiums paid to landlords to secure operating leases are recognised iftherehas been a change in the estimates used to determine the as assets and depreciated to residual value over the leaseterm.
recoverable amount, only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 1.17 EXCEPTIONAL COSTS determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment Exceptional items are non-recurring items which are outside the losshad been recognised.
normal scope of the Groups ordinary activities such as costs arising 1.13 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS from a fundamental restructuring of the Groups operations or costs DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PL ANS that are considered to be one-off in nature.
Such items are disclosed A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under separately within the consolidated income statement.
which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and 1.18 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Financial expenses comprise interest payable and changes in the Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans fairvalue of financial liabilities that are recognised in the income are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement statement.
Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
invested and changes in the fair value of financial assets that are SHORT-TERM BENEFITS recognised in the income statement.
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid asit accrues, using the effective interest method.
under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 1.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.21 OWN SHARES RESERVE CON TINUED Where the Company or its subsidiaries including the JimmyChoo 1.19 TAXATION PLC Employee Benefit Trust purchase the Companys own equity Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable tax.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement and transaction costs, is presented within the own shares reserve consolidated statement of other comprehensive income except to asadeduction in shareholders equity in the consolidated the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in financialstatements.
which case it is recognised in equity.
1.22 ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS ADOPTION OF NEW STANDARDS Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group has adopted the income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively following standards, amendments and improvements endorsed enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable bythe IASB during 2014 and 2015: in respect of previous years.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of FUTURE ADOPTION OF NEW STANDARDS goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business following standards and interpretations which have not been applied combination and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and tothe extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the IFRS 11 Amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests balance sheet date.
inJoint Operations A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is IAS16 and 38 Classification of Acceptable Methods probable that future profits will be available against which the ofDepreciation and Amortisation temporary difference can be utilised.
IAS27 Amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority IFRS 9 Financial Instruments on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution between an Investor there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Amendments and its Associate or Joint Venture 1.20 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS Annual Improvements to Investment Entities: Applying the CASH-SET TLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle Consolidation Exception Share-based payment transactions in which the Group receives IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 28 goods or services by incurring a liability to transfer cash or other Amendments assets that is based on the price of the Groups equity instruments IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees is recognised as an IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period Unrealised Losses in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at IFRS 16 Leases settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability arerecognised as staff costs in the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
The Group chose not to adopt any of the above standards and interpretations early.
It is anticipated that adoption of these standards EQUIT Y-SET TLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES and interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact Share-based payment transactions in which the Group receives on the Groups financial results except for the following standards goods or services by incurring a liability to transfer its own equity that may alter measurement and disclosure: instruments are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The payments are assessed at their fair value on the grant IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and additions to IFRS 9 date.
The cost of the share-based incentives is recognised as an IFRS 16 Leases expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The estimate of the number of options expected Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
When options and awards are exercised, they are settled through awards of shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
The proceeds received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to equity.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires The vesting of awards granted under the Groups share-based theDirectors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that payments scheme is dependent upon continued employment affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets withinthe Group over the vesting period.
Judgement is required andliabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated indetermining the number of shares that will ultimately vest.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other TA X ATION factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon Actual results may differ from these estimates.
future taxable income and the expected recoverability of the balance.
The estimate will include assumptions regarding future income Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing streams of the Group and the future movement in corporation tax basis based on historical experience and other factors, including rates in the respective jurisdictions.
The estimation of liabilities in expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable respect of current taxation depends on estimates and judgements under the circumstances.
Revisions to accounting estimates are inrespect of whether or not and the extent to which items of recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any incomeand expenditure will be taxable.
The key judgements and estimates employed in the financial statements are considered below.
OPERATING SEGMENTS IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE The Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM is the Board of ASSE TS Directors.
Internal management reports are reviewed by the CODM.
On an annual basis, the Group is required to perform an impairment Key measures used to evaluate segment performance are revenue review to assess whether the carrying value of goodwill and other and segment contribution to EBITDA.
Management believes that indefinite life intangible assets is less than its recoverable amount.
these measures are the most relevant in evaluating the performance Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of expected future of the segment and for making resource allocation decisions as cash flows, which include estimates of future performance.
Details central costsare not allocated across the segments.
of assumptions used in the impairment tests are detailed in note 11.
The CODM considers the Groups segments to be its three channels KEY MONEY VALUATION to market, being Retail including online, Wholesale and Other.
Judgement is required in estimating the residual value of key money paid to outgoing tenants to secure a leasehold property.
In certain Retail revenue is generated through the sale of luxury goods to end locations, the residual value of key money is considered to be equal clients through JimmyChoo directly operated stores in Europe, USA, to cost, either due to legal protection offered to tenants in that Canada, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Malaysia and Japan and jurisdiction or because it is common practice to at least recover through the Groups website.
theamounts paid at the end of the lease due to the existence of an active market for operating leases of prime luxury real estate.
Wholesale revenue is generated through the sale of luxury goods to distribution partners, multi-brand department stores and speciality VALUATION OF OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS storesworldwide.
The assessment of fair value in a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and Other revenue is predominantly generated through receipt of contingent liabilities in the acquired business.
The key judgements royalties from the Groups global licensees of JimmyChoo branded required are the identification of intangible assets meeting the fragrance, sunglasses and eyewear products.
recognition criteria of IAS38 and their attributable fair values.
The key assumptions in relation to the brand valuation are the Directors There are no material inter-segment transactions.
best estimate of its life and the royalty and discount rate used in itsvaluation.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 3.
OPERATING SEGMENTS CON TINUED An analysis of net assets by segment is not reviewed by the CODM and accordingly is not presented below.
Total assets by segment has been presented below.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Retail Wholesale Other Total 2015 2015 2015 2015 000 000 000 000 Revenue 207,687 99,742 10,426 317,855 Segment result 46,985 47,048 586 94,619 Administrative expenses 64,799 Finance income 2,779 Finance expense 5,452 Loss on financial instruments 5,073 Share of profit of associates 40 Profit before tax 22,114 The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Retail Wholesale Other Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 000 000 000 000 Revenue 192,896 99,583 7,191 299,670 Segment result 45,049 45,260 1,254 91,563 Administrative expenses 67,483 Finance income 1,480 Finance expense 30,963 Loss on financial instruments 2,908 Share of profit of associates 12 Loss before tax 8,299 SEGMENT ASSETS The following table provides an analysis of the Groups total assets by reportable segment: 2015 2014 000 000 Retail 122,247 119,261 Wholesale 20,431 21,122 Other 27,272 24,430 Total segment assets 169,950 164,813 Goodwill and brand 573,936 570,494 Cash and cash equivalents 13,838 12,045 Investments in equity-accounted investees 183 191 Taxation 10,000 11,429 Total assets 767,907 758,972 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
OPERATING SEGMENTS CON TINUED ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by geographical destination, irrespective of the origin of the goods: 2015 2014 000 000 UK 37,029 38,174 EMEA excluding UK 92,671 94,176 Americas 106,364 99,845 Asia excluding Japan 42,199 34,805 Japan 39,592 32,670 Total 317,855 299,670 The total of non-current assets other than deferred tax assets located in the UK and foreign countries is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 UK 590,475 585,013 EMEA excluding UK 22,387 21,788 Americas 20,301 19,700 Asia excluding Japan 12,251 8,779 Japan 1,164 1,063 Total 646,578 636,343 The Group did not have a single customer that accounted for more than 10% of the Groups consolidated revenue in either of the yearspresented.
OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit is stated after charging crediting: 2015 2014 000 000 Depreciation of fixed assets 16,117 14,225 Gain on disposal of operating lease 402 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 290 273 Amortisation of other intangible fixed assets 1,412 793 Exceptional costs 2,388 13,047 Operating lease rentals for land and buildings 28,290 23,705 Net loss gain on foreign currency translation 937 1,786 5.
EXCEPTIONAL COSTS The Group incurred the following costs during the years presented that are considered to be exceptional: 2015 2014 000 000 Acquisition and integration costs 1,644 Replatforming costs 2,225 3,559 IPO costs 163 7,844 Total 2,388 13,047 Acquisition and integration costs relate to initiatives put in place following the acquisition of Passion Holdings Limited on 1 July 2011 and the subsequent costs incurred integrating the operations of the business into the wider JAB Luxury GmbH group.
These costs include legal and other professional fees associated with the refinancing and integration of the Group and the restructuring of the senior management team, including severance, recruitment costs and retention bonuses.
These initiatives came to an end on the IPO of the Group in October 2014.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 5.
EXCEPTIONAL COSTS CON TINUED Replatforming costs represent costs associated with strengthening product development in the Florence facility, reinforcing the team in keyfunctions, undertaking regional buyouts in Asia and scaling up the information systems capability and office infrastructure to support thegrowth strategy, as well as associated streamlining of the organisation.
IPO costs represent costs directly associated with the listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange in October 2014.
31 December 2014 IPO costs includes an exceptional charge of 1.6m in respect of the accelerated vesting of the Groups cash-settled share-based payment scheme atIPO note 22.
Replatforming and IPO costs are considered to be one-off in nature and are therefore appropriate to recognise as exceptional costs.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number ofordinary shares in issue during the year.
There were no shares issued for the year.
The difference between basic and diluted earnings per share is not material.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, the Group has chosen to present an additional illustrative measure of Adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted earnings per share has been calculated using Adjusted Consolidated Net Income see note 29 and dividing bythenumber of ordinary shares outstanding as at 31 December 2015.
of shares Basic weighted average shares 377,786,469 93,152,879 Outstanding shares as at 31 December 377,786,469 377,786,469 2015 2014 000 000 Profit loss for the year 19,417 10,842 Adjusted Consolidated Net Income for the year 18,966 22,888 Earnings per share is calculated as follows: 2015 2014 Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 5.1 11.6 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share pence 5.0 6.1 7.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable for the audit of the Companys financial statements 226 213 Amounts receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 71 57 Other audit related services 160 Taxation compliance services 82 121 Taxation advisory services 60 540 Other non-audit services 62 874 Total auditor remuneration 501 1,965 Included in auditor remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 were fees incurred in relation to tax advice for the replatforming of the business 0.2m.
Included in the auditor remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 were fees incurred as part of the IPO process including corporate finance transaction services fees of 0.9m, tax advisory services of 0.2m and audit fees of 0.2m in relation to the six month period audit undertaken.
These are disclosed within exceptional costs see note 5.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8.
STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2015 2014 Administration 288 320 Selling and distribution 803 659 Total staff numbers 1,091 979 The aggregate payroll costs incurred were as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Wages and salaries 44,134 40,914 Social security costs 5,339 5,042 Share-based payments 2,905 3,541 Contributions to defined contribution plans 2,075 1,354 Total staff costs 54,453 50,851 Full details of Directors remuneration and interests are set out in the Remuneration and Nominations Committee Report.
Share-based payment expenses have been recognised in administrative expenses in the current and prior year.
Included within share-based payments expenses for the year ended 31 December 2014 is an expense of 1.6m that relates to the accelerated vesting of the Groups cash-settled share-based payment scheme and is disclosed within exceptional costs see note 5.
FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE 2015 2014 000 000 Bank interest income 16 24 Foreign exchange gain on external borrowings 2,763 1,456 Total financial income 2,779 1,480 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 5,015 5,955 Interest expense on shareholder credit facility 23,646 Finance charges 437 1,362 Total finance expense 5,452 30,963 Net result on financial instruments 5,073 2,908 Net financing expense 7,746 32,391 Interest incurred on the shareholder credit facility ceased on 3 October 2014 when the Group entered into a debt for equity swap agreement, which discharged the shareholder credit facility in exchange for the issue of ordinary shares in Choo Luxury Group Limited see note 21.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 10.
TAXATION TAXATION RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2015 2014 000 000 Corporation tax charge for the year 5,796 4,455 Adjustments for prior year 305 911 Double taxation relief 146 130 Foreign tax for current year 189 167 Current taxation 5,534 5,403 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3,443 2,860 Adjustments for prior year 606 Deferred tax credit 2,837 2,860 Total tax charge for the year 2,697 2,543 The tax charge is reconciled with the standard rates of UK corporation tax as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Profit loss before tax 22,114 8,299 UK corporation tax at standard rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.25% 4,478 1,763 Factors affecting the charge for the year: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,080 2,196 Utilisation of losses brought forward carried forward 280 327 Impact of change in tax rate 4,774 Adjustments in respect of prior year 301 911 Group relief claimed and paid for 242 Difference of overseas rate 892 1,114 Total tax charge for the year 2,697 2,543 FACTORS AFFECTING THE FUTURE, CURRENT AND TOTAL TAX CHARGES Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% and 18% effective from 1 April 2017 and 1 April 2020 respectively were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
This will reduce the Companys future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2015 have been calculated based on the rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in each jurisdiction which was 18% in the UK.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
All other amortisation is recognised inadministrative expenses.
ALLOCATION OF INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The carrying value of goodwill is allocated as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Retail 193,085 187,856 Wholesale 114,172 114,172 Other 2,863 4,650 310,120 306,678 The additions under software and other intangible assets in 2015 reflects the costs of the transformation programme.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 11.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CON TINUED Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Goodwill of 294.2m arising on the acquisition of Passion Holdings Limited on 1 July 2011 is allocated to the groups of cash generating unitsacquired that represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
This isconsistent with the determination of operating segments.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the value-in-use of each operating segment is calculated as described below.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions of J. Choo Hong Kong JV Limited, the business line of Jimmy Choo in Shanghai Kutu Trading Co. Ltd. J. Choo Russia JV Limited and the current period acquisition described in note 13 is allocated to the Retail segment for impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Studio Luxury S. r. l. is allocated to the Other segment for impairment testing.
The JimmyChoo brand, which was valued at 263.8m on the acquisition of Passion Holdings Limited on 1 July 2011 is considered to have an indefinite useful life and accordingly is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or where an indicator of impairment is identified.
The brand is fundamental to the operations of the Group as a whole and is therefore not allocated to cash generating units but tested for impairment at the Group level.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING The value-in-use is represented by the discounted value of future cash flows that are expected from continuous use of the assets associated with the cash generating units and by the terminal value attributable to them.
In assessing the value-in-use, the cash flow projections were taken from the Groups five year business plan, approved by the Board of Directors.
The cash flow projections are subject to key assumptions in respect of discount rates, future revenue, margin and EBITDA growth.
The Directors have reviewed and approved the assumptions inherent in the model as part of the annual budget process using historical experience and considering economic and business risks facingthe Group.
The terminal value was determined using a perpetuity long-term growth rate in line with macro-economic estimates of 3%.
In assessing the Groups value-in-use, a discount rate of 7.5% 2014: 9.9% has been applied to the groups of cash generating units.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations by assuming a reasonable change in the discount rate, revenue growth rates, EBITDA margins and terminal growth rates.
The sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under these scenarios and the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill or the brand in any of the years presented as, for each cash generating unit and the Group as a whole, the recoverable amount exceeds its carrying value.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES ACQUISITIONS IN THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 Fair value 000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment Current assets Inventories Total assets Goodwill 3,365 Total consideration 3,365 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 3,365 On 1 April 2015, J. Choo Limited acquired part of the trade of American Style Pte.
Ltd. and Valiram Avant Garde Sdn.
Prior to the acquisition, American Style Pte.
operated Jimmy Choo franchise stores in Singapore and Malaysia under a distribution agreement with J. Choo Limited.
Ltd. subsequently acquired the operating leases, the tangible fixed assets and stock of the franchised stores from American Style Pte.
Ltd. and Jimmy Choo Malaysia Sdn.
subsequently acquired the operating lease, the tangible fixed assets and stock of the franchised store from Valiram Avant Garde Sdn.
Goodwill represents the fair value of the trade acquired including the operations and a presence in these locations.
ACQUISITIONS IN THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 On 10 February 2014, J. Choo Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of the Group, subscribed for 100% of the share capital ofJ.
Choo Canada Inc. for consideration of CAD 1,000 545.
On 15 October 2014, Jimmy Choo PLC subscribed for 100% of the share capital of Jimmy Choo Holdings Limited for consideration of389,737,588 satisfied by way of share-for-share exchange note 21.
On 5 August 2014, Itachoo S. r. l. a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of the Group, purchased 100% of Studio Luxury S. r. l. a wholly owned subsidiary of JAB Luxury GmbH.
The consideration is payable in four tranches between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2018.
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group on the Studio Luxury S. r. l. acquisition.
Fair value Book value adjustment Fair value 000 000 000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 111 111 Current assets Trade and other receivables 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 570 570 Total assets 700 700 Trade and other payables 956 956 Net liabilities 256 256 Goodwill 1,787 Total consideration 1,531 Satisfied by: Deferred consideration 1,531 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition: Cash acquired 570 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES CON TINUED The book value of the acquired assets was equal to fair value.
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition because of the growth potential of the business, the future income generating potential of the assets acquired, the workforce and the value of other immaterial intangible assets acquired.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES The undertakings in which the Groups interest at the year end is more than 20% are as follows: Ordinary shares held % Company Country of Incorporation Nature of Business 2015 2014 JimmyChoo Holdings Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 100 100 Choo Luxury Group Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 100 100 Choo Luxury Holdings Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 100 100 Choo Luxury Finance Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 100 100 J. Choo Limited Great Britain Retail and wholesale 100 100 J. Choo OS Limited Great Britain Retail 100 100 Franchoo SAS France Retail 100 100 Itachoo S. r. l. Italy Retail 100 100 J Choo Florida Inc. USA Property 100 100 J Choo Germany GmbH Germany Retail 100 100 J. Choo Jersey Limited Jersey Brand Co. 100 100 J Choo USA, Inc. USA Retail 100 100 JimmyChoo Spain S. L. Spain Retail 100 100 J Choo Switzerland AG Switzerland Retail 100 100 J. Choo Belgium BVBA Belgium Retail 100 100 J. Choo Asia Limited Hong Kong Regional office 100 100 J. Choo Japan JV Ltd. Great Britain Dormant 100 100 JimmyChoo Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd China Retail 100 100 JimmyChoo Tokyo K. K. Japan Retail and wholesale 100 100 J. Choo Netherlands B. V. The Netherlands Retail 100 100 J. Choo Czech s. r. o. Czech Republic Retail 100 100 J. Choo Hong Kong JV Limited Great Britain Dormant 100 100 JimmyChoo Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Retail and wholesale 100 100 J. Choo Supply SA Switzerland Procurement 100 100 J. Choo Austria GmbH Austria Retail 100 100 J. Choo Canada Inc. Canada Retail 100 100 Studio Luxury S. r. l. Italy Production control 100 100 J. Choo Singapore JV Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 100 Jimmy Choo Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Retail 100 Jimmy Choo Malaysia Sdn.
Malaysia Retail 100 J. Choo Russia JV Limited Great Britain Holding Co. 50 50 J. Choo RUS LLC Russian Federation Retail 50 50 JC Industry S. r. l. Italy Production 33 33 As at 31 December 2015, all subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, except where indicated differently above and operate in the country in which they are incorporated.
All subsidiaries have financial years ending 31 December.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 14.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CON TINUED The Groups share of the results of its immaterial associate, which is unlisted, and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Total assets 2,674 2,061 Total liabilities 2,120 1,481 Net assets 554 580 Groups share of net assets 183 191 Revenue 3,852 142 Profit 121 37 Groups share of associate profit 40 12 15.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: ASSE TS 2015 2014 000 000 Inventories 5,587 7,725 Other assets 3,584 3,645 Deferred tax assets 9,171 11,370 L IA BIL ITIES 2015 2014 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 1,375 1,247 Intangible assets 47,487 52,763 Deferred tax liabilities 48,862 54,010 Less deferred tax assets 9,171 11,370 Net deferred tax liabilities 39,691 42,640 Movement in deferred tax during the year: Recognised Recognised in other Effect of in profit and comprehensive Recognised foreign 1 January loss credit income directly in exchange rate 31 December 2015 charge credit charge equity changes 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 1,247 128 1,375 Intangible assets 52,763 5,276 47,487 Inventories 7,725 2,270 132 5,587 Other financial assets including foreign exchange adjustment 3,645 41 33 13 3,584 42,640 2,837 132 33 13 39,691 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CON TINUED Recognised Recognised in other in profit and comprehensive Recognised 1 January loss credit income directly in 31 December 2014 charge credit charge equity 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 1,061 186 1,247 Intangible assets 52,763 52,763 Inventories 5,118 2,607 7,725 Other financial assets including foreign exchange adjustment 3,134 507 29 33 3,645 Tax value of losses carried forward 68 68 45,504 2,860 29 33 42,640 16.
INVENTORIES 2015 2014 000 000 Finished goods 54,765 57,820 Raw materials 67 248 54,832 58,068 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year was 118.9m 2014: 108.3m.
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stocks and their replacement cost.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2015 2014 000 000 Trade receivables 26,112 26,700 Allowance for doubtful debts 259 302 25,853 26,398 Amounts owed by related parties note 26 2,219 2,120 Other receivables 9,012 8,254 Restricted cash 379 311 Prepayments and accrued income 3,208 3,168 Other tax receivable 1,988 836 Total current receivables 42,659 41,087 Invoices to customers are generally due for payment within 30 days of the end of the month of issue.
The Groups experience is that the majority of customers pay within that timeframe.
Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts which are past due at the reporting date see below for aged analysis.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit qualityof the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The Group has recognised an allowance fordoubtful receivables at each reporting date by considering the recoverability of each receivable.
AGEING OF PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED RECEIVABLES 2015 2014 000 000 31-60 days 2,034 1,759 60-120 days 427 355 121 days 638 648 Total 3,099 2,762 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CON TINUED MOVEMENT IN ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL DEBTS 2015 2014 000 000 Balance at beginning of the year 302 290 Movement in allowance for doubtful debts 43 12 Balance at the end of the year 259 302 The allowance account for trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written-off against the trade receivables directly.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS The contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost are described below.
Formore information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 23.
2015 2014 000 000 Non-current liabilities Secured bank loan 113,462 113,217 Secured bank facility 3,378 11,221 Loan from related party 569 544 Total non-current liabilities 117,409 124,982 Current liabilities Current portion of secured bank facility 17,808 12,604 Total current liabilities 17,808 12,604 SECURED BANK LOAN AND FACILITIES The principal amounts, interest margins and expiry dates for the main bank facilities as at 31 December 2015 are: Principal Principal 000 $ 000 Interest margin Expiry date Facility B1 EUR 50,253 68,106 EURIBOR 3.0% 27 June 2018 Facility B2 USD 63,209 93,602 LIBOR 3.0% 27 June 2018 Capex acquisition facility EUR 10,118 13,712 EURIBOR 2.5% 27 June 2017 The Groups current bank facility came into effect on 1 July 2011.
It consists of two term loans, a Capex acquisition facility and a revolving creditfacility, held by one of the Companys subsidiary undertakings, Choo Luxury Finance Limited.
During the year, the Group made no repayments against Facility B1 year ended 31 December 2014: 11.9m.
During the year, the Group made no repayments against Facility B2 year ended 31 December 2014: 1.5m.
During the year, the Group made repayments of 7.5m against the Capex acquisition facility year ended 31 December 2014: 4.2m.
TheCapex acquisition facility is repayable in equal bi-annual instalments until 27 June 2017.
In addition to the above, the Group has access to a revolving credit facility which expires on 27 June 2017 of up to 91.6m 67.6m, of which 51.9m was available to be drawn at 31 December 2015.
The Groups external bank facilities are secured by way of a pledge of certain assets of the Group.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CON TINUED ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY CURRENCY Euro US Dollars Total 000 000 000 31 December 2015 Bank loans 50,253 63,209 113,462 Bank facilities 21,186 21,186 Loans from joint venture partner 569 569 72,008 63,209 135,217 Euro US Dollars Total 000 000 000 31 December 2014 Bank loans 53,204 60,013 113,217 Bank facilities 18,751 5,074 23,825 Loans from joint venture partner 544 544 72,499 65,087 137,586 19.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2015 2014 000 000 Current Trade payables 46,398 54,654 Accruals and deferred income 26,486 23,539 Accrued interest on bank facilities 1,780 2,199 Amounts owed to related parties note 26 4,088 6,638 Amounts owed to associate note 26 2,009 1,657 Deferred consideration owed to related parties note 26 664 312 Other creditors 5,344 5,495 Total current trade and other payables 86,769 94,494 Non-current Put option over non-controlling interest note 26 500 500 Deferred consideration owed to related parties note 26 764 1,199 Other creditors 3,931 3,466 Total non-current trade and other payables 5,195 5,165 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables is approximate to their fair value.
Deferred consideration arose on the acquisition of Studio Luxury S. r. l. on 5 August 2014 and is payable in four tranches between 1 January 2015 and 31 December2018.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 20.
OTHER LIABILITIES 2015 2014 000 000 Current Employee Benefit Trust liability 1,307 Non-current Employee Benefit Trust liability 14,346 15,374 Total other liabilities 15,653 15,374 The current liability will be used to satisfy options awarded under the JC PLC Share Award of which one third is due to vest on 1 July 2016.
The non-current liability has been discounted applying a pre-tax discount rate of 1.8% 2014: 1.8% that has been adjusted for risks specific tothe liability.
The JimmyChoo PLC Employee Benefit Trust acquired the Companys own shares during the prior year from JAB Luxury GmbH, the Groups majority shareholder.
The consideration for the shares has been left outstanding and will fall due for payment when shares are awarded to employees in accordance with the terms of the Groups long-term incentive plan see note 22.
Shares will be returned to JAB Luxury GmbH in the event of being surplus to requirements from ongoing share schemes.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES 2015 2014 000 000 Share capital 389,738 389,738 Share premium 99,480 99,480 Own shares reserve 16,732 16,732 Translation reserve 2,469 2,864 Retained earnings 3,048 25,469 Total equity 466,969 444,153 SHARE CAPITAL Share capital is comprised of: 2015 2014 000 000 Allotted and called up 389,737,588 ordinary shares of 1 each 389,738 389,738 SHARE PREMIUM Share premium of 99.5m arose on the debt for equity swap transaction between JAB Luxury GmbH and Choo Luxury Group Limited on 3October 2014.
The carrying value of the Shareholder Credit Facility including accrued interest at the date of the debt for equity swap was489.2m.
OWN SHARES RESERVE The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the JimmyChoo PLC Employee Benefit Trust is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the own shares reserve was as follows: Number of Average price ordinary shares paid per share 000 Balance at 1 January 2014 Shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust during the year 11,951,119 1.40 16,732 Balance at 31 December 2014 11,951,119 1.40 16,732 Shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust during the year Balance at 31 December 2015 11,951,119 1.40 16,732 Shares held by the JimmyChoo PLC Employee Benefit Trust will be used to satisfy options awarded under the Groups long-term incentive plan see note 22.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year, the Group operated two equity-settled share-based compensation schemes for its Directors and employees.
In the prior year, the Group also operated a cash-settled share-based payment scheme, which was cancelled on the IPO of the Group in October 2014.
Details of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
CASH-SETTLED SHARE OPTION SCHEME PHANTOM OPTION SCHEME The Group operated a long-term incentive plan open to invited employees of the Group the Participants, which was accounted for as acash-settled share-based payment scheme.
The Participants in the scheme were required to purchase equity in Choo Luxury Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group the Subsidiary in order to receive matching phantom options over the shares of theSubsidiary.
A put and call agreement existed between the Participants and the Subsidiary which enabled the Participants to put their equity shares back tothe Subsidiary at fair value.
The Subsidiary could call the shares in the event of a change in control or if the Participants left employment with the Group.
The put and call agreement was accounted for as a cash-settled share-based payment scheme as the Participants were required to remain employed by the Group in order to participate in any increase in the fair value of the underlying equity shares.
The IPO of the Group in October 2014 triggered the vesting conditions of all the options.
Of these, 5,387,877 options were exercised at afair value of 1.40, calculated with reference to the IPO price.
The remaining 3,571,713 were cancelled and replaced by the equity-settled JC PLC Scheme detailed below.
At IPO, the Participants also exchanged their shares in Choo Luxury Holdings Limited for shares in JimmyChoo PLC via a series of share-forshare exchanges.
The put and call agreement over the Participants shares in Choo Luxury Holdings Limited lapsed at IPO.
The liability of 3.5m that had previously been recognised in respect of the put and call agreement was therefore reclassified to equity.
Details of the movements during the current and preceding year are as follows: 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,959,590 1 Granted during the year 1 Cancelled during the year 3,571,713 1 Exercised during the year 5,387,877 Expired during the year Outstanding at the end of the year Exercisable at the end of the year EQUITY-SETTLED SHARE OPTION SCHEMES JC PLC SHARE AWARD Following the partial vesting of the Phantom Option Scheme at IPO in October 2014, 3,571,713 options were cancelled and a new equity-settled share-based payment scheme implemented the JC PLC Share Award.
The number of shares awarded under the JC PLC Share Award was calculated by reference to the value attributed to the proportion of previously held phantom options.
For each phantom option forfeited, Participants received 0.55 share awards, with a nominal exercise price of 1 in total for each exercise.
The options are due to vest in three stages: one third are exercisable on 1 July 2016: one third are exercisable on 1 July 2017: and theremaining third are exercisable on 1 July 2018.
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vestingperiod.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 21 October 2024.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 22.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CON TINUED Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,951,120 Granted during the year 1,951,120 Forfeited during the year 80,117 Outstanding at 31 December 1,871,003 1,951,120 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average exercise price of the options is nil.
ONE-OFF AWARD 2015 GRANTS On 31 December 2015, share awards of 214,285 ordinary shares in Jimmy Choo PLC were granted as a one-off performance award, with a nominal exercise price of 1 in total for each exercise.
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
The fair value of the award was determined as 1.41 based on the market value of ordinary shares atthe grant date.
2014 GRANTS On 30 October 2014, share awards of 9,842,858 ordinary shares in JimmyChoo PLC were granted as a one-off award at IPO to members ofthe Groups senior management team, with a nominal exercise price of 1 in total for each exercise.
The options were awarded in three tranches, each with different vesting conditions: 1.
MAIN AWARD 50% of the options granted are exercisable on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and 50% are exercisable on the sixth anniversary ofthegrant date.
The total number of shares granted under this award was 7,921,429.
ALTERNATE GRANT 1 33% of the options granted are exercisable on the fourth anniversary of the grant date: 33% are exercisable on the fifth anniversary of thegrant date and 33% are exercisable on the sixth anniversary of the grant date.
The total number of shares granted under this award was1,071,429.
ALTERNATE GRANT 2 850,000 options were granted with vesting conditions that are the same as the JC PLC Share Awards described above.
The fair value of the award was determined as 1.40 based on the market value of ordinary shares atthe grant date.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 9,842,858 Granted during the year 214,285 9,842,858 Forfeited during the year 964,286 Outstanding at 31 December 9,092,857 9,842,858 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average exercise price of the options is nil.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Directors have overall responsibility for the oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
A formal process for reviewing and managing risk in the business has been developed.
A register of strategic and operational risk is maintained and reviewed by the Directors, who also monitor the status of agreed actions to mitigate key risks.
CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from wholesale customers and the Groups foreign exchange forwardcontracts.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number of different customers.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
TheGroup only sells to wholesale customers who are creditworthy and mitigates risk in certain markets by trading on terms with acceleratedpayments, bank guarantees and letters of credit, as well as adopting credit insurance when appropriate.
The Group monitors thecreditworthiness of counterparties using publicly available information.
As a result, the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or through major credit cards.
An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 17.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain derivative instruments.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to thecarrying value of these instruments if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligation.
The Groups policy isthat surplus funds are placed on deposit with counterparties, who are either party to the Groups banking syndicate, or who are creditworthy counterparties.
LIQUIDIT Y RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient cash or loan facilities to meet all its commitments when they fall due by ensuring that there are sufficient cash or working capital facilities to meet the Groups cash requirements.
The risk is measured by review of forecast liquidity each month to determine whether there are sufficient credit facilities to meet forecast requirements and by monitoring covenants on a regular basis to ensure there are no expected significant breaches, which would lead to an Event of Default.
Cash flow forecasts are submitted monthly to the Directors.
These continue to demonstrate the strong cash generating ability of the business and its ability to operate within existing agreed banking facilities.
There have been no breaches of covenants during thereported years.
For further details of the Groups borrowings see note 18.
All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The carrying value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 In more than one year, but not more than two years 9,059 12,299 In more than two years, but not more than three years 116,659 5,862 In more than three years, but not more than four years 6,045 116,408 In more than four years, but not more than five years 6,265 6,115 In more than five years 6,195 Total non-current financial liabilities 138,028 146,879 MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income.
The Groups exposure to market risk predominantly relates to interest and currency risk.
INTEREST RATE RISK The Group is exposed to the risk of interest rate fluctuations mainly with regard to the interest expense on the debt carried by Choo Luxury Finance Limited.
The Groups bank borrowings incur variable interest rate charges linked to EURIBOR LIBOR plus a margin.
The Groups policy aims to manage the interest cost of the Group within the constraints of its financial covenants and business plan.
Sensitivity analysis of the effect of a change in interest rates of 1% is included on page 116.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group operates internationally and is exposed to the foreign exchange risk which can negatively impact revenue, costs, margins andprofit.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES CON TINUED The Group transacts with its suppliers of finished goods, based in continental Europe, in Euro.
In addition to this, the Group is exposed totransaction risk on the translation and conversion of surplus US Dollar, Hong Kong Dollar, Japanese Yen and Chinese Yuan balances, generated by its directly owned stores globally into Euro and Pounds Sterling.
The Groups policy allows these exposures to be hedged for up to 12months forward in order to create sufficient certainty to price different collections and assure the business cash flows.
Hedging is performed through the use of foreign currency bank accounts and forward foreign exchange contracts and nil cost options.
Thesecontracts are put in place as part of the Groups treasury management strategy.
It enables merchandisers to be given targeted exchange rates for products, which are set aligned with the hedge rates for future collections, typically 9 to 12 months before cash flows crystallise.
Inaddition, the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts in order to hedge its exposure to foreign currency gains and losses arising on the Euro denominated portion of its external bank facilities.
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date in currencies other than the local currency of operation.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received orpaid in cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary assets liabilities assets liabilities 000 000 000 000 Euro 6,739 113,812 14,459 68,062 US Dollar 16,926 64,899 9,635 115,424 Japanese Yen 780 4 578 Hong Kong Dollar 2,300 1,882 554 113 Chinese Yuan 71 84 802 Other currencies 901 398 1,309 800 27,717 180,995 26,619 185,201 PENSION LIABILIT Y RISK The Group has no association with any defined benefit pension scheme and therefore carries no deferred, current or future liabilities in respect of such a scheme.
CAPITAL RISK The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to optimise returns to its shareholders.
The Boards policy is to retain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future growth.
The Directors regularly monitor the Groups level of capital to ensure that this can be achieved.
Cash is used to fund the Groups continued investment and growth of the global brand.
It is also used to make routine outflows of capital expenditure and tax.
The Group has access to a revolving credit facility of 91.6m 67.6m of which 21.3m 15.7m was utilised at 31 December 2015 2014: 14.9m 11.7m utilised.
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities and has been in compliance throughout the reported years.
FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values.
The majority of the financial assets are current.
The majority of the current interest-bearing liabilities are at variable interest rates.
The fair values of the non-current fixed rate interest-bearing liabilities are not materially different from their carrying amounts.
The fair value of non-current fixed rate interest-bearing liabilities is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cashflows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
The fair value of derivative instruments currency forwards and options is determined based on current and available market data.
Pricing models commonly used in the market are used, taking into account relevant parameters such as forward rates, spot rates, discount rates, yield curves and volatility.
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into the below levels, reflecting the significance of the inputs used in estimating thefair values: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical instruments: JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES CON TINUED Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable either directly or indirectly from market data: Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs, this category includes all instruments where the valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments valuation.
The Group recognises derivative financial instruments at fair value.
No other financial instruments are carried at fair value.
The derivative financial instruments have been measured using a Level 2 valuation method.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 13,838 12,045 Trade and other receivables 42,659 41,087 Total financial assets 56,497 53,132 Trade and other payables 91,964 99,659 Borrowings 135,217 137,586 Other liabilities note 20 15,653 15,374 Other financial liabilities 1,273 2,903 Total financial liabilities 244,107 255,522 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS SENSITIVIT Y ANALYSIS In managing interest rate and currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on its earnings.
At the end of each reporting year, the effect of hypothetical changes in interest and currency rates is as follows: INTEREST RATE SENSITIVIT Y ANALYSIS The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to interest rates on floating rate borrowings i. e. cash and cash equivalents and bank borrowings which attract interest at floating rates if interest rates were to change by 1%.
The impact on the results in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income and equity would be: 2015 2014 Increase Increase decrease decrease in equity in equity 000 000 1% movement in interest rates 1,346 1,370 -1% movement in interest rates 1,346 1,370 FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVIT Y ANALYSIS The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to Pounds Sterling strengthening weakening by 10%: 2015 2014 Increase Increase decrease decrease in equity in equity 000 000 10% appreciation of Pounds Sterling 13,477 14,378 10% depreciation of Pounds Sterling 17,589 17,667 This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Group considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the reporting year.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Other financial assets and liabilities are the result of derivative contracts entered into by the Group to hedge against exchange rate risk.
Thederivative contracts have been recognised at fair value.
2015 2014 000 000 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,273 2,903 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 24.
OPERATING LEASES Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Land and Buildings 2015 2014 000 000 Less than one year 29,227 26,560 Between one and five years 81,289 79,297 More than five years 32,865 37,300 Total operating leases 143,381 143,157 The Group leases a number of stores under operating leases of varying lengths.
In addition, the Group had annual commitments under concession agreements totalling 3.6m 2014: 1.2m per annum at 31 December 2015.
COMMITMENTS J. Choo Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, holds a put option to purchase the remaining 50% share capital of J. Choo Russia JV Limited at the end of the joint venture agreement in 2018.
The fair value of the future consideration payable is estimated to be 0.5m at 31 December 2015 2014: 0.5m.
In 2012, the Company entered into a joint and several money only guarantee of up to 15.0m for a UK lease for the benefit of Belstaff International Limited, a fellow subsidiary of JAB Luxury GmbH.
The Company is counter-indemnified in respect of this guarantee by JABLuxury GmbH.
There was no unprovided capital or other financial commitments at 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
RELATED PARTIES TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The compensation of key management personnel including the Directors is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Key management personnel emoluments Emoluments of which Directors 1.2m 2014: 1.9m 5,619 5,709 Termination payments 418 Share-based payments of which Directors 1.2m 2014: 1.5m 2,867 3,410 Other emoluments 1,371 Total emoluments 8,904 10,490 Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes of which Directors 0.0m 2014: 0.0m 125 221 Total emoluments 9,029 10,711 Share-based payments for the year ended 31 December 2014 includes an expense of 1.6m recognised within exceptional items seenote22.
The costs associated with other emoluments were also recognised within exceptional items.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
RELATED PARTIES CON TINUED OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Balances between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group has related party relationships with its shareholder, JAB Luxury GmbH, other subsidiary undertakings of JAB Luxury GmbH, its associate and the other shareholder of J. Choo Russia JV Limited.
The Group entered into the following transactions during theyear: 2015 2014 Income Expense Income Expense 000 000 000 000 Parent company JAB Luxury GmbH 191 404 73 Other related parties Bally Americas Inc. 112 Bally GC Retail Co. Limited 75 66 Bally UK Sales Ltd. 318 Bally Shanghai Commercial Co. Ltd. 123 Belstaff International Limited 543 LLX Global Business Services Americas Inc. 853 764 LLX Global Business Services Hong Kong Limited 309 274 LLX Global Business Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. 147 106 LLX Global Business Services UK Ltd 3,808 1,282 JC Industry S. r. l. associated company 3,327 4,261 Oxana Bondarenko 85 249 Total 191 9,869 7,310 The following amounts were outstanding at the balance sheet date: 2015 2014 Receivable Payable Receivable Payable 000 000 000 000 Parent company JAB Luxury GmbH 27 15,653 9 18,305 Other related parties Bally Americas Inc. 72 15 175 Bally GC Retail Co. Limited 6 2 Bally UK Sales Ltd. 1,466 140 1,322 296 Bally Schuhfabriken AG 16 11 Belstaff International Limited 24 540 7 571 LLX Global Business Services UK Ltd 518 3,001 736 3,330 LLX Global Business Services Americas Inc. 51 265 31 469 LLX Global Business Services Hong Kong Limited 84 19 LLX Global Business Services SA 61 LLX Global Business Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. 38 96 Luxury Italia Holding S. r. l. 1,428 1,511 JC Industry S. r. l. associated company 2,009 1,657 Oxana Bondarenko 1,069 1,136 Zagliani UK Limited 4 Total 2,219 24,249 2,120 27,582 The Group received income of 0.2m 2014: nil and incurred 0.4m of expenses 2014: 0.1m on behalf of or receivable or payable to JABLuxury GmbH during the year to 31 December 2015.
Included in the payable to Bally UK Sales Ltd. is 0.1m 2014: 0.3m in relation to surrender of tax losses.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 26.
RELATED PARTIES CON TINUED Included in the payable to Belstaff International Limited is 0.5m 2014: nil in relation to surrender of tax losses.
ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY The majority shareholder is JAB Luxury GmbH and the ultimate controlling party is Agnaten SE, a company incorporated in Austria.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT On 17 March 2016, Jimmy Choo PLC signed a new 5 year financing agreement, which includes a 125m term loan and a revolving credit facility of 75m with an option to increase by a further 50m.
The transaction is expected to be funded within March 2016.
RECONCILIATION TO NON-GAAP PERFORMANCE MEASURES ADJUSTED EBITDA 2015 2014 000 000 Operating profit 29,820 24,080 Adjusted for: Exceptional costs note 5 2,388 13,047 Depreciation 16,117 14,225 Amortisation 1,412 793 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 290 129 Realised and unrealised foreign exchange loss gain 937 1,786 Adjusted EBITDA 50,964 50,230 ADJUSTED EBIT 2015 2014 000 000 Operating profit 29,820 24,080 Adjusted for: Exceptional costs note 5 2,388 13,047 Share of profit of associates 40 12 Realised and unrealised foreign exchange loss gain 937 1,786 Adjusted EBIT 33,185 35,353 ADJUSTED EARNINGS BEFORE TAX 2015 2014 000 000 Profit loss before tax 22,114 8,299 Adjusted for: Exceptional costs note 5 2,388 13,047 Interest on shareholder credit facility 23,646 Foreign exchange gain on external loan 2,763 1,456 Loss on financial instruments on external loan 2,761 1,353 Adjusted EBT 24,500 28,291 ADJUSTED CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME 2015 2014 000 000 Profit loss for the year 19,417 10,842 Adjusted for: Exceptional costs note 5 2,388 13,047 Deferred tax 2,837 2,860 Interest on shareholder credit facility 23,646 Foreign exchange gain on external loan 2,763 1,456 Loss on financial instruments on external loan 2,761 1,353 Adjusted Consolidated Net Income 18,966 22,888 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119
