Notes to the Company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2015 If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Accounting Policies carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Significant accounting policies recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in The principal accounting policies, which have been applied in the the income statement.
preparation of the Company financial statements, are set out below.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the Basis of preparation carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
A reversal of an IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company financial statements Foreign currencies have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates convention as modified by the revaluation of fixed assets and liabilities ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates These are the first financial statements of the company prepared in ruling at the balance sheet dates or at a contractual rate if applicable and accordance with IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out below have any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated December 2015, the comparative information presented in the financial equity share capital in the financial statements of John Wood Group statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and in preparation of PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2014 the Companys date of transition.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Company Financial instruments has adjusted the amounts reported previously in financial statements The accounting policy for financial instruments is consistent with prepared under UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK the Group accounting policy as presented in the notes to the Group GAAP to IFRSs has affected the Companys financial position, financial financial statements.
The Companys financial risk management policy performance and cash flows is set out in note 16. is consistent with the Groups financial risk management policy outlined The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are in note 17 to the Group financial statements.
rounded to the nearest $0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Employee share trusts The financial position of the Company is shown in the balance sheet The Company is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, on page 105.
Note 10 includes the Companys objectives, policies and income and costs of its employee share trusts.
They have therefore processes for managing its financial risks and details of its financial been included in the financial statements of the Company.
The cost of instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to interest rate shares held by the employee share trusts is deducted from equity.
The Company adopts the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Share based charges The Company has a number of share schemes as detailed in the Group Reporting currency accounting policies and note 20 to the Group financial statements.
Details The Companys transactions are primarily US dollar denominated and relating to the calculation of share based charges are provided in note 20 the functional currency is the US dollar.
to the Group financial statements.
In respect of the Company, the charge The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in is shown as an increase in the Companys investments, as the employees the preparation of these financial statements:- to which the charge relates are employed by subsidiary companies.
Average rate Closing rate Dividends 1 $ 1 $ Dividends to the Groups shareholders are recognised as a liability Year ended 31 December 2013 1.5673 1.6563 in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Dividend income is credited to the income statement when the Year ended 31 December 2014 1.6469 1.5593 dividend has been approved by the board of directors of the subsidiary Year ended 31 December 2015 1.5289 1.4739 company making the payment.
Trade receivables Investments in subsidiaries Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less an allowance Investments are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, for any amounts estimated to be uncollectable.
An estimate for less any provision for impairment.
doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the collection of the debt is no longer probable.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying Interest-bearing loans and borrowings amounts of its investments to assess whether there is an indication All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction Company makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Borrowing costs are expensed through the income statement.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
108 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued Impairment of investments Accounting Policies continued The Company assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities of investments at each reporting date.
Investments are tested for A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash flows impairment when there are indicators that the carrying amounts may from the asset have expired.
A financial liability is derecognised when not be recoverable.
Details of impairments recorded during the year the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
and the carrying value of investments are contained in note 1.
Taxation Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit The tax expense in the income statement represents the sum of taxes The Company is the sponsoring entity for the Groups defined benefit currently payable and deferred taxes.
The tax currently payable is based pension scheme in the UK which was closed to future accrual on 30 on taxable profit for the year and the Companys liability for current tax June 2014.
The value of the retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively is determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit as Changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying value of the reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income surplus deficit.
The Company determines the appropriate discount rate or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further to be used in the actuarial valuation at the end of each financial year excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
following consultation with the retirement benefit scheme actuary.
In determining the rate used, consideration is given to the interest rates Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary of high quality corporate bonds in the currency in which the benefits differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets will be paid and that have terms to maturity similar to those of the and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
See note 29 of the Group financial Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the deductible Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can a Amended standards and interpretations be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an IAS 19 Employee benefits was amended with effect from 1 January undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when 2015.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and Companys financial statements.
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset, only if a legally enforceable b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the standards that are not yet effective and have not been early deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority and that authority adopted by the Company permits the Company to make a single net payment.
The following standards have been published and are mandatory for Tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that the Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in the 2018, but the Company has not early adopted them: income statement.
X IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to The Company is the sponsoring entity for the Groups defined benefit have a material impact on the financial statements.
The surplus or deficit recognised in respect of the defined benefit scheme represents the difference between the X IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for accounting periods on or present value of the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of the after 1 January 2018.
The Company does not expect the adoption of scheme assets.
The assets of this scheme are held in separate trustee this standard to have a material impact on the financial statements.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 30 X IFRS 16 Leases is effective for accounting periods beginning on or June 2014.
See note 29 to the Group financial statements for full details.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the financial statements.
Judgments and key sources of estimation or uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to Amendments have also been made to the following standards effective make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts 1 January 2016.
The Company does not expect the amendments to reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and have a material impact on the financial statements.
the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
X IFRS 11 Joint arrangements However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
X IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment X IAS 38 Intangible assets Estimates and assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of X IAS 27 Separate financial statements estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant X IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets X IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
All other amendments not yet effective and not included above are not material or applicable to the Company.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109
