The impairment tests were carried out by Cash Generating Unit CGU, the CGUs being aligned to the Groups reporting structure.
The reclassifications line includes amounts that were wrongly classified as current assets in prior periods.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Value-in-use calculations have been prepared for each CGU using the cash flow projections included in the financial budgets approved by management for 2016 and 2017.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 3% per annum for a further three year period.
A terminal value is applied thereafter in order to calculate long-term estimated cash flows using the same anticipated long-term growth rate of 3% across all CGUs.
The growth rate used does not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The cash flows have been discounted using pre-tax discount rates appropriate for each CGU.
Division Cash Generating Unit Goodwill carrying value $m Wood Group Mustang 479.0 Wood Group Engineering Wood Group Kenny 85.5 WG PSN Asia Pacific 132.7 WG PSN Africa 117.3 WG PSN Middle East and ERC 5.2 Wood Group PSN Production Services WG PSN Americas 496.5 WG PSN UK 424.4 WG PSN Global Business 24.7 Total Goodwill 1,765.3 The pre-tax discount rates used range from 12-15% and the average for the businesses is 14%.
The impairment tests are carried out using the latest Group budgets as approved by the Board.
The budgets are based on various assumptions including market outlook, resource utilisation, contract backlog, contract margins and assumed contract awards.
A terminal value is calculated using a long-term growth rate of 3%.
The value-in-use is then compared to the carrying value for each CGU to determine whether any impairment charge is required.
No goodwill has been written off during the current or prior year.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the basis that the expected long-term growth rate falls to 2% and that the discount rates are 1% higher than those above in order to assess the impact of reasonable possible changes to the assumptions used in the impairment review.
This analysis did not identify any impairment.
Intangibles arising on acquisition include the valuation of customer contracts and customer relationships recognised on business combinations.
As part of the impairment review, the Group has reviewed these contracts and relationships and no impairment was identified.
72 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
