Notes to the Company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2015 If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Accounting Policies carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Significant accounting policies recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in The principal accounting policies, which have been applied in the the income statement.
preparation of the Company financial statements, are set out below.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the Basis of preparation carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
A reversal of an IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company financial statements Foreign currencies have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates convention as modified by the revaluation of fixed assets and liabilities ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates These are the first financial statements of the company prepared in ruling at the balance sheet dates or at a contractual rate if applicable and accordance with IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out below have any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated December 2015, the comparative information presented in the financial equity share capital in the financial statements of John Wood Group statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and in preparation of PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2014 the Companys date of transition.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Company Financial instruments has adjusted the amounts reported previously in financial statements The accounting policy for financial instruments is consistent with prepared under UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK the Group accounting policy as presented in the notes to the Group GAAP to IFRSs has affected the Companys financial position, financial financial statements.
The Companys financial risk management policy performance and cash flows is set out in note 16. is consistent with the Groups financial risk management policy outlined The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are in note 17 to the Group financial statements.
rounded to the nearest $0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Employee share trusts The financial position of the Company is shown in the balance sheet The Company is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, on page 105.
Note 10 includes the Companys objectives, policies and income and costs of its employee share trusts.
They have therefore processes for managing its financial risks and details of its financial been included in the financial statements of the Company.
The cost of instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to interest rate shares held by the employee share trusts is deducted from equity.
The Company adopts the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Share based charges The Company has a number of share schemes as detailed in the Group Reporting currency accounting policies and note 20 to the Group financial statements.
Details The Companys transactions are primarily US dollar denominated and relating to the calculation of share based charges are provided in note 20 the functional currency is the US dollar.
to the Group financial statements.
In respect of the Company, the charge The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in is shown as an increase in the Companys investments, as the employees the preparation of these financial statements:- to which the charge relates are employed by subsidiary companies.
Average rate Closing rate Dividends 1 $ 1 $ Dividends to the Groups shareholders are recognised as a liability Year ended 31 December 2013 1.5673 1.6563 in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Dividend income is credited to the income statement when the Year ended 31 December 2014 1.6469 1.5593 dividend has been approved by the board of directors of the subsidiary Year ended 31 December 2015 1.5289 1.4739 company making the payment.
Trade receivables Investments in subsidiaries Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less an allowance Investments are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, for any amounts estimated to be uncollectable.
An estimate for less any provision for impairment.
doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the collection of the debt is no longer probable.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying Interest-bearing loans and borrowings amounts of its investments to assess whether there is an indication All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair that those assets may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction Company makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Borrowing costs are expensed through the income statement.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
108 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
