Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2015 Critical accounting judgements and estimates General information The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of estimates John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, provide and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities services to the oil and gas and power generation industries worldwide.
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of Details of the Groups activities during the year are provided in the revenue and expenses during the year.
These estimates are based on Strategic Report.
John Wood Group PLC is a public limited company, managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland and listed on the London actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
and assumptions that could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are addressed below.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation a Impairment of goodwill These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Group carries out impairment reviews whenever events or changes IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries out an annual impairment companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are also review.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting of goodwill is less than the carrying amount.
The impairment tests are Standards Board.
The Group financial statements have been prepared carried out by CGU Cash Generating Unit and reflect the latest Group on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as budgets as approved by the Board.
The budgets are based on various modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value assumptions relating to the Groups businesses including assumptions through the income statement.
relating to market outlook, resource utilisation, contract awards and contract margins.
The outlook for the Group is discussed in the CEO Significant accounting policies Review.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 12% and 15% have been The Groups significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of used to discount the CGU cash flows and a terminal value is applied these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been using a 3% long-term growth rate.
A sensitivity analysis has been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
performed allowing for possible changes to both the discount rate and long-term growth rate.
See note 8 for further details.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the b Impairment of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the The Groups investment in the EthosEnergy joint venture is accounted date of acquisition or up until the date of divestment as appropriate.
An impairment review was carried out in Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power togovern December 2015 based on the latest forecasts for EthosEnergy.
The the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a recoverable amount of the investment per the review was lower than shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
All Group the book value and an impairment of $137.2m was recorded in the companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare financial income statement.
A sensitivity analysis has also been performed statements to 31 December.
allowing for possible changes to both the discount rate and long-term growth rate.
See note 10 for further details.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement where the parties to c Income taxes the arrangement share rights to its net assets.
Joint control is the The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in The Group provides for uncertain tax positions based on the best determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine estimate of the most likely outcome in respect of the relevant issue.
Where the final outcome on uncertain tax positions is different from the amounts initially recorded, the difference will have an impact on the The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using equity Groups tax charge.
See note 5 for further details.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is d Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK which joint venture from the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are was closed to future accrual on 30 June 2014.
The value of the Groups included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The Group includes its retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit is determined on an actuarial share of joint venture profit on the line Share of post-tax profit from joint basis using a number of assumptions.
Changes in these assumptions will ventures in the Group income statement and its share of joint venture net impact the carrying value of the surplus deficit.
The Group determines the assets in the investment in joint ventures line in the Group balance sheet.
appropriate discount rate to be used in the actuarial valuation at the end of each financial year following consultation with the retirement benefit scheme actuary.
In determining the rate used, consideration is given to the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity similar to those of the related retirement benefit obligation.
See note 29 for further details.
58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
