Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2015 Critical accounting judgements and estimates General information The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of estimates John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, provide and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities services to the oil and gas and power generation industries worldwide.
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of Details of the Groups activities during the year are provided in the revenue and expenses during the year.
These estimates are based on Strategic Report.
John Wood Group PLC is a public limited company, managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland and listed on the London actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
and assumptions that could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are addressed below.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation a Impairment of goodwill These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Group carries out impairment reviews whenever events or changes IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union in circumstance indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries out an annual impairment companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are also review.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting of goodwill is less than the carrying amount.
The impairment tests are Standards Board.
The Group financial statements have been prepared carried out by CGU Cash Generating Unit and reflect the latest Group on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as budgets as approved by the Board.
The budgets are based on various modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value assumptions relating to the Groups businesses including assumptions through the income statement.
relating to market outlook, resource utilisation, contract awards and contract margins.
The outlook for the Group is discussed in the CEO Significant accounting policies Review.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 12% and 15% have been The Groups significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of used to discount the CGU cash flows and a terminal value is applied these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been using a 3% long-term growth rate.
A sensitivity analysis has been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
performed allowing for possible changes to both the discount rate and long-term growth rate.
See note 8 for further details.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the b Impairment of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the The Groups investment in the EthosEnergy joint venture is accounted date of acquisition or up until the date of divestment as appropriate.
An impairment review was carried out in Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power togovern December 2015 based on the latest forecasts for EthosEnergy.
The the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a recoverable amount of the investment per the review was lower than shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
All Group the book value and an impairment of $137.2m was recorded in the companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare financial income statement.
A sensitivity analysis has also been performed statements to 31 December.
allowing for possible changes to both the discount rate and long-term growth rate.
See note 10 for further details.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement where the parties to c Income taxes the arrangement share rights to its net assets.
Joint control is the The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in The Group provides for uncertain tax positions based on the best determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine estimate of the most likely outcome in respect of the relevant issue.
Where the final outcome on uncertain tax positions is different from the amounts initially recorded, the difference will have an impact on the The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using equity Groups tax charge.
See note 5 for further details.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is d Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK which joint venture from the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are was closed to future accrual on 30 June 2014.
The value of the Groups included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The Group includes its retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit is determined on an actuarial share of joint venture profit on the line Share of post-tax profit from joint basis using a number of assumptions.
Changes in these assumptions will ventures in the Group income statement and its share of joint venture net impact the carrying value of the surplus deficit.
The Group determines the assets in the investment in joint ventures line in the Group balance sheet.
appropriate discount rate to be used in the actuarial valuation at the end of each financial year following consultation with the retirement benefit scheme actuary.
In determining the rate used, consideration is given to the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity similar to those of the related retirement benefit obligation.
See note 29 for further details.
58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Revenue recognition Accounting Policies continued Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or e Provisions receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of the The Group records provisions where it has a present obligation legal or Groups activities.
Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue of the obligation can be made.
Where the outcome is less than probable, is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are but more than remote, no provision is recorded but a contingent liability based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multi-year is disclosed in the financial statements, if material.
The recording of service contracts.
Incentive performance revenue is recognised upon provisions is an area which requires the exercise of management completion of agreed objectives.
Revenue is stated net of sales taxes judgement relating to the nature, timing and probability of the liability such as VAT and discounts.
and typically the Groups balance sheet includes provisions for doubtful Revenue on fixed price or lump sum contracts for services, construction debts, warranty provisions, contract provisions including onerous contracts and fixed price long-term service agreements is recognised contracts and pending legal issues.
See note 18 for further details.
according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by measuring the proportion of costs incurred for work performed to Functional currency total estimated costs.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal completed is recognised, on a basis that the directors consider to functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative be appropriate, once the outcome of the contract can be estimated currency of the Group.
The Groups financial statements are therefore reliably, which is when a contract is not less than 20% complete.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately.
The net amount The following exchange rates have been used in the preparation of of costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less progress billings is these financial statements: disclosed within trade and other receivables.
Revenue from fixed price and lump sum contracts is not material in the current period.
2015 2014 Details of the services provided by the Group are provided on page 62 Average rate 1 $ 1.5289 1.6469 under the Segmental Reporting heading.
Closing rate 1 $ 1.4739 1.5593 Exceptional items Foreign currencies Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately Income statements of entities whose functional currency is not the disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Transactions for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars which may give rise to exceptional items include gains and losses at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange on divestment of businesses, write downs or impairments of assets differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at including goodwill, restructuring costs or provisions, litigation the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from settlements, provisions for onerous contracts and acquisition and the restatement of profits and losses from average to year end rates, divestment costs.
See note 4 for full details of exceptional items.
are taken to the currency translation reserve.
Finance expense income In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are Interest income and expense is recorded in the income statement in the translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates period to which it relates.
Arrangement fees and expenses in respect of ruling at the date of the transaction.
Where more than one exchange the Groups debt facilities are amortised over the period which the Group rate is available, the appropriate rate at which assets can be readily expects the facility to be in place.
Interest relating to the unwinding of the realised and liabilities can be extinguished is used.
Monetary assets discount on deferred and contingent consideration liabilities is included and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at in finance expense.
Interest relating to the Groups retirement benefit the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any exchange scheme is also included in finance expense.
differences are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Dividends foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Dividends to the Groups shareholders are recognised as a liability and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the financial statements of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Goodwill The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Acquisition costs are expensed and included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Notes to the financial statements continued Cash and cash equivalents Accounting Policies continued Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and other short-term Intangible assets bank deposits with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Where the Group Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that there will be uses pooling arrangements with a right of set-off, overdrafts and cash future economic benefits attributable to the asset, the cost of the are netted and included in the appropriate category depending on the asset can be measured reliably, the asset is separately identifiable and net position of the pool.
there is control over the use of the asset.
Where the Group acquires a business, intangible assets on acquisition such as customer contracts Trade receivables are identified and evaluated to determine the carrying value on the Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently acquisition balance sheet.
Intangible assets are amortised over their measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, estimated useful lives, as follows: less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Software 3-5 years Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The provision is determined by Development costs and licenses 3-5 years reference to previous experience of recoverability for receivables in Intangible assets on acquisition each market in which the Group operates.
customer contracts and relationships 5 years Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently Property plant and equipment measured at amortised cost.
Property plant and equipment PP&E is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
No depreciation is charged with respect to freehold land and assets in the course of construction.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method over the incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
following estimated useful lives of the assets: Deferred and contingent consideration Freehold and long leasehold buildings 25-50 years Where deferred or contingent consideration is payable on the Short leasehold buildings period of lease acquisition of a business based on an earn out arrangement, an estimate of the amount payable is made at the date of acquisition and Plant and equipment 3-10 years reviewed regularly thereafter, with any change in the estimated liability being reflected in the income statement.
Where deferred consideration When estimating the useful life of an asset group, the principal factors is payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted the Group takes into account are the durability of the assets, the using an appropriate rate of interest.
Deferred and contingent intensity at which the assets are expected to be used and the expected consideration is recognised at fair value.
Asset lives and residual values are assessed at each balance sheet date.
Taxation Impairment The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of PP&E, investment deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for in joint ventures and intangible assets whenever events or changes in the year.
Taxable profit differs from the profit reported in the income circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
statement due to items that are not taxable or deductible in any period In addition, the Group carries out annual impairment reviews in respect of and also due to items that are taxable or deductible in a different goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount period.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates of an asset, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
Deferred tax is provided, using the full liability method, on temporary For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are aligned to their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The the structure the Group uses to manage its business.
Cash flows are principal temporary differences arise from depreciation on PP&E, tax discounted in determining the value in use.
losses carried forward and, in relation to acquisitions, the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
Inventories Tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the balance sheet date Inventories, which include materials, work in progress and finished are used to determine deferred tax.
goods and goods for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course differences can be utilised.
of business, less the estimated costs of completion and estimated selling expenses.
Allowance is made for obsolete and slow-moving items, based upon annual usage.
60 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Finance leases Accounting Policies continued A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance activities leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
apportioned between finance expense and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the outstanding Where hedging is to be undertaken, the Group documents the balance.
Leased assets are depreciated over their estimated useful life.
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the transaction, as well as the risk management Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The The Group operates a defined benefit scheme and a number of defined Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on contribution schemes.
The surplus or deficit recognised in respect of the an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging defined benefit scheme represents the difference between the present transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or value of the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of the scheme cash flows of the hedged items.
The assets of this scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 30 June 2014.
Cash flow hedges The defined benefit schemes assets are measured using fair values.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that Pension scheme liabilities are measured annually by an independent are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the actuary using the projected unit method and discounted at the current hedging reserve in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and portion is recognised immediately in administrative expenses in the currency to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities case of forward contracts or finance income expense in the case of the Groups defined benefit scheme expected to arise from employee of interest rate swaps in the income statement.
When a hedging service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The interest income instrument expires or is sold, when a hedge no longer meets the on scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value criteria for hedge accounting, or when a forecast transaction is no of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are netted longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported and included in finance expense.
Re-measurement gains and losses in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit schemes surplus deficit is When appropriate, the Group also uses fair value and net investment recognised in full and presented on the face of the Group balance sheet.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged Fair value estimation to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value The Group operates a pension arrangement in the US for certain of their estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign employees.
Contributions are paid into a separate investment vehicle exchange contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange and invested in a portfolio of US funds that are recognised by the market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of all derivative Group as a long-term receivable with a corresponding liability in other financial instruments are obtained from valuations provided by financial non-current liabilities.
Investments are carried at fair value.
value of listed equity investments and mutual funds is based on quoted The carrying values of trade receivables and payables approximate to market prices and so the fair value measurement can be categorised in their fair values.
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the Provisions future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is Provision is made for the estimated liability on all products and services available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
still under warranty, including claims already received, based on past experience.
Other provisions are recognised where the Group is deemed Operating leases to have a legal or constructive obligation, it is probable that a transfer of As lessee economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where amounts provided are statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Benefits payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease using an appropriate rate of interest.
are also spread on a straight line basis over the period of lease.
As lessor Operating lease rental income arising from leased assets is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Notes to the financial statements continued Wood Group PSN Production Services provides services to the Accounting Policies continued upstream, midstream, downstream and industrial sectors through Share based charges relating to employee share schemes brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, The Group has recorded share based charges in relation to a number operations and maintenance, facility construction and maintenance of employee share schemes.
management, industrial services, training and decommissioning services.
Charges are booked to the income statement as an employee benefit expense for the fair value of share options expected to be exercised Wood Group PSN Turbine activities provides industrial gas turbine under the Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS and the Long and rotating equipment repair, maintenance, overhaul and power plant Term Retention Plan LTRP.
Amounts are accrued over the vesting EPC services to the oil and gas and power sectors.
period with the corresponding credit taken to retained earnings.
Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards Options are also awarded under the Groups Long Term Plan LTP which is the incentive scheme in place for executive directors and a Amended standards and interpretations certain senior executives.
The charge for options awarded under IAS 19 Employee benefits was amended with effect from 1 January the LTP is based on the fair value of those options at the grant date, 2015.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups spread over the vesting period.
The corresponding credit is taken to financial statements.
For awards that have a market related performance measure, the fair value of the market related element is calculated b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
standards that are not yet effective and have not been early For further details of these schemes, please see note 20 and the adopted by the Group Directors Remuneration Report.
The following standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, but the Group has not early adopted them: Share capital John Wood Group PLC has one class of ordinary shares and these are X IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective classified as equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are not recognised for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. as a liability or charged to equity until they have been approved by The Group is in the process of assessing the likely impact of this shareholders.
standard on the financial statements.
The Group is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and X IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for accounting periods costs of its employee share trusts, therefore they have been consolidated on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group does not expect the in the financial statements of the Group.
Shares acquired by and adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the financial disposed of by the employee share trusts are recorded at cost.
of shares held by the employee share trusts is deducted from equity.
X IFRS 16 Leases is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is in the process of assessing Segmental reporting the likely impact of this standard on the financial statements.
The Group has determined that its operating segments are based on management reports reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Amendments have also been made to the following standards effective Maker CODM, the Groups Chief Executive.
The Group does not expect the amendments to have segments are Wood Group Engineering and Wood Group PSN.
a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Following the formation of the EthosEnergy joint venture in 2014, all of the Groups predominantly opex related turbine activities are carried X IFRS 11 Joint arrangements out through joint ventures and now managed and reported as part of X IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment Wood Group PSN.
In order to provide visibility over the performance of the turbine activities, they are included on a separate line Wood Group X IAS 38 Intangible assets PSN Turbine activities in the Groups management information.
X IAS 27 Separate financial statements The Chief Executive measures the operating performance of these X IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements segments using EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the X IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements internal management reports provided to the Chief Executive who is All other amendments not yet effective and not included above are not responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the material or applicable to the Group.
Wood Group Engineering provides a wide range of specialist engineering services including conceptual studies, engineering, project and construction management EPCM and control systems upgrades to the upstream, subsea and pipeline, downstream, chemical process, automation and industrial and clean energy sectors.
62 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
