Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 9 Other non-current liabilities 2015 2014 2013 $m $m $m Amounts due to Group undertakings 1,290.4 1,294.4 1,227.4 The amounts due to Group undertakings are inter-company loans.
Interest on these loans is charged at market rates.
10 Financial instruments Financial risk factors The Companys activities give rise to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Companys overall risk management strategy is to hedge exposures wherever practicable in order to minimise any potential adverse impact on the Companys financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group Treasury department in line with the Groups Treasury policies which are approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identify, evaluate and where appropriate hedge financial risks.
The Group Treasury policies cover specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess cash.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currencies.
Where possible the Companys policy is to eliminate all significant currency exposures at the time of the transaction by using financial instruments such as forward currency contracts.
Changes in the forward contract fair values are recorded in the income statement.
ii Interest rate risk The Company finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and debt.
The company borrows in the desired currencies at floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the Companys exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At 31 December 2015, 100% 2014: 100% of the Companys long-term borrowings were at fixed rates after taking account of interest rate swaps.
The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk on cash held on deposit.
The Companys policy is to maximise the return on cash deposits whilst ensuring that cash is deposited with a financial institution with a credit rating of A or better, where possible.
iii Price risk The Company is not exposed to any significant price risk in relation to its financial instruments.
b Credit risk The Companys credit risk primarily relates to its inter-company loans and inter-company receivables.
Management believe that no further risk provision is required in excess of the current provision for impairment.
The Company also has credit risk in relation to cash balances or cash held on deposit.
The Companys policy is to deposit cash at institutions with an A rating or better where possible.
100% of the cash held on deposit at 31 December 2015 was held with such institutions.
c Liquidity risk With regard to liquidity, the Groups policy is to ensure continuity of funding.
At 31 December 2015, 53% 2014: 53% of the Companys borrowing facilities including bank overdrafts were due to mature in more than one year.
Based on the current outlook the Company has sufficient funding in place to meet its future obligations.
d Capital risk The Companys capital risk is determined by that of the Group.
See note 17 to the Group financial statements.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115
