Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Borrowings continued Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities available at 31 December: 2015 2014 $m $m Expiring within one year 82.0 108.8 Expiring between two and five years 830.0 830.0 912.0 938.8 All undrawn borrowing facilities are floating rate facilities.
The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during 2016.
The Group was in compliance with its bank covenants throughout the year.
In January 2015, the Group extended its $950m bilateral bank facilities until January 2020.
16 Other non-current liabilities 2015 2014 $m $m Deferred and contingent consideration 90.4 40.6 Other payables 110.4 89.1 200.8 129.7 Deferred and contingent consideration represents amounts payable on acquisitions made by the Group and is expected to be paid over the next four years.
17 Financial instruments The Groups activities give rise to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is to hedge exposures wherever practicable in order to minimise any potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group Treasury department in line with the Groups Treasury policies.
Group Treasury, together with the Groups business units identify, evaluate and where appropriate, hedge financial risks.
The Groups Treasury policies cover specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess cash.
Where the Board considers that a material element of the Groups profits and net assets are exposed to a country in which there is significant geo-political uncertainty a strategy is agreed to ensure that the risk is minimised.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currencies.
The Group has a number of subsidiary companies whose revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Where possible, the Groups policy is to eliminate all significant currency exposures on revenues at the time of the transaction by using financial instruments such as forward currency contracts.
Changes in the forward contract fair values are booked through the income statement, except where hedge accounting is used in which case the change in fair value is recorded in equity.
The Group does not have any financial instruments in place to hedge foreign currency movements in its balance sheet.
However, strategies such as payment of intercompany dividends are used to minimise the amount of net assets exposed to foreign currency revaluation.
The Group carefully monitors the economic and political situation in the countries in which it operates to ensure appropriate action is taken to minimise any foreign currency exposure.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued The Groups largest foreign exchange risk relates to movements in the sterling US dollar exchange rate.
Movements in the sterling US dollar rate impact the translation of sterling profit earned in the UK and the translation of sterling denominated net assets.
The potential impact of changes in the sterling US dollar exchange rate is summarised in the table below.
As the Group reports in US dollars a strengthening of the pound has a positive impact on translation of its sterling companies profits and net assets.
2015 2014 $m $m Impact of 10% change to average $ exchange rate on profit after tax 6.0 12.3 Impact of 10% change to closing $ exchange rate on equity 75.2 72.9 10% has been used in these calculations as it represents a reasonable possible change in the sterling US dollar exchange rate.
The Group also has foreign exchange risk in relation a number of other currencies, in particular, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Euro and the Norwegian kroner.
ii Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and debt.
The Group borrows in the desired currencies at floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate swaps into fixed rates to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At 31 December 2015, 80% 2014: 89% of the Groups bank borrowings were at fixed rates after taking account of interest rate swaps.
If the senior loan notes are taken into account the percentage of debt at fixed rate increases to 94%.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on cash held on deposit.
The Groups policy is to maximise the return on cash deposits whilst ensuring that cash is deposited with a financial institution with a credit rating of A or better, where possible.
If average interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during 2015 2014: 1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been $0.2m lower or higher respectively 2014: $2.7m.
1% has been used in this calculation as it represents a reasonable possible change in interest rates.
iii Price risk The Group is not exposed to any significant price risk in relation to its financial instruments.
b Credit risk The Groups credit risk primarily relates to its trade receivables.
The Groups operations comprise Wood Group Engineering and Wood Group PSN, each of which is made up of a number of businesses.
Responsibility for managing credit risks lies within the businesses with support being provided by Group and divisional management where appropriate.
In 2015, the Group issued a new Group credit risk policy to enhance and improve existing controls.
There is significant management focus on receivables in the current challenging market.
A customer evaluation is typically obtained from an appropriate credit rating agency.
Where required, appropriate trade finance instruments such as letters of credit, bonds, guarantees and credit insurance will be used to manage credit risk.
The Groups major customers are typically large companies which have strong credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Where a customer does not have sufficiently strong credit ratings, alternative forms of security such as the trade finance instruments referred to above may be obtained.
The Group has a broad customer base and management believe that no further credit risk provision is required in excess of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
Management review trade receivables across the Group based on receivable days calculations to assess performance.
A table showing trade receivables and receivable days is provided in note 12.
Receivable days calculations are not provided on non-trade receivables as management do not believe that this information is a relevant metric.
The Group also has credit risk in relation to cash held on deposit.
The Groups policy is to deposit cash at institutions with a credit rating of A or better where possible.
100% of cash held on deposit at 31 December 2015 2014: 100% was held with such institutions.
c Liquidity risk With regard to liquidity, the Groups main priority is to ensure continuity of funding.
At 31 December 2015, 94% 2014: 97% of the Groups borrowings including senior loan notes were due to mature in more than one year.
Based on the current outlook the Group has sufficient funding in place to meet its future obligations.
During 2014, the Group issued $375m of unsecured senior loan notes in the US private placement market.
The notes were issued at a mix of 7, 10 and 12 year maturities.
In January 2015, the Group extended its bilateral facilities of $950m to January 2020.
80 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued d Capital risk The Group seeks to maintain an optimal capital structure.
The Group monitors its capital structure on the basis of its gearing ratio, interest cover and when applicable, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
These ratios are calculated using the proportionally consolidated figures used for management reporting.
Gearing is calculated by dividing net debt by equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Interest cover is calculated by dividing total EBITA by net finance expense.
Interest cover for the year to 31 December 2015 was 20.3 times 2014: 22.7 times.
The ratio of net debt to total EBITDA at 31 December 2015 was 0.55 2014: 0.48.
Financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Drawdowns under the bilateral bank facilities are for periods of three months or less and therefore loan interest payable is excluded from the amounts below.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2015 $m $m $m $m Borrowings 43.9 14.0 162.1 429.7 Trade and other payables 702.8 - - - Other non-current liabilities - 55.0 151.2 - At 31 December 2014 Borrowings 28.7 14.0 162.1 447.5 Trade and other payables 914.5 - - - Other non-current liabilities - 37.8 94.2 - Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities The fair value of short-term borrowings, trade and other payables, trade and other receivables, short-term deposits and cash at bank and in hand approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of interest rates in respect of these instruments.
Drawdowns under long-term bank facilities are for periods of three months or less and as a result, book value and fair value are considered to be the same.
Details of derivative financial instruments are not disclosed in the financial statements as they are not material.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred and contingent consideration is payable on the acquisition of businesses based on earn out arrangements and is initially recognised at fair value.
The amount payable is dependent on the post-acquisition profits of the acquired entities and the provision made is based on the Groups estimate of the likely profits of those entities.
Where deferred and contingent consideration is payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted using an appropriate rate of interest.
The fair value of contingent consideration is not based on observable market data and as such the valuation method is classified as level 3 under IFRS 13.
The process for valuation is consistently applied to all acquisitions.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
