Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Borrowings continued Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities available at 31 December: 2015 2014 $m $m Expiring within one year 82.0 108.8 Expiring between two and five years 830.0 830.0 912.0 938.8 All undrawn borrowing facilities are floating rate facilities.
The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during 2016.
The Group was in compliance with its bank covenants throughout the year.
In January 2015, the Group extended its $950m bilateral bank facilities until January 2020.
16 Other non-current liabilities 2015 2014 $m $m Deferred and contingent consideration 90.4 40.6 Other payables 110.4 89.1 200.8 129.7 Deferred and contingent consideration represents amounts payable on acquisitions made by the Group and is expected to be paid over the next four years.
17 Financial instruments The Groups activities give rise to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is to hedge exposures wherever practicable in order to minimise any potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group Treasury department in line with the Groups Treasury policies.
Group Treasury, together with the Groups business units identify, evaluate and where appropriate, hedge financial risks.
The Groups Treasury policies cover specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess cash.
Where the Board considers that a material element of the Groups profits and net assets are exposed to a country in which there is significant geo-political uncertainty a strategy is agreed to ensure that the risk is minimised.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currencies.
The Group has a number of subsidiary companies whose revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Where possible, the Groups policy is to eliminate all significant currency exposures on revenues at the time of the transaction by using financial instruments such as forward currency contracts.
Changes in the forward contract fair values are booked through the income statement, except where hedge accounting is used in which case the change in fair value is recorded in equity.
The Group does not have any financial instruments in place to hedge foreign currency movements in its balance sheet.
However, strategies such as payment of intercompany dividends are used to minimise the amount of net assets exposed to foreign currency revaluation.
The Group carefully monitors the economic and political situation in the countries in which it operates to ensure appropriate action is taken to minimise any foreign currency exposure.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
