Glossary of Terms Adjusted earnings per share means profit attributable to the Corporate website means www.
holders of Ordinary shares in the parent, before long-term CRM means customer relationship marketing.
employee incentive costs, exceptional items, other gains, foreign exchange gains and losses, amortisation of acquired intangible CSOP means the JUST EAT Company Share Option Plan.
assets and the tax impact of the adjusting items, divided by the CSR means Corporate Social Responsibility.
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
DeliveRex - means Jeb Srl, the Groups subsidiary acquired in Italy.
Admission means the admission of the Ordinary shares to the High Growth Segment HGS of the Main Market of the London Directors means the Directors of the Company whose names Stock Exchange which occurred on 8 April 2014.
On 6 May 2014, areset out on pages 36 and 37. the Group transitioned from the HGS of the Main Market to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules means the disclosure rules premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Financial and transparency rules made under Part VI of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
AFS means available for sale.
EBITDA earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the Company, depreciation and amortisation.
which will be held on 27 April 2016 at 9.30am at the Lincoln EBT means the Employee Benefit Trust which is administered Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London, WC2A 3ED.
byAppleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited.
AOV means average order value.
EMI scheme means the JUST EAT Enterprise Management Average revenue per order ARPO calculated as B2C revenue Incentive scheme.
divided by the number of orders.
EPOS means electronic point of sale technology used by Articles means the Articles of Association of the Company.
Associates or Associated undertakings means from EPS means earnings per share.
14November 2013 Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited, ESOS - means employee share option scheme.
the Groups Indian joint venture which was disposed and from 3November 2014 IF-JE Participaes Ltda, the Groups Brazilian ETR means effective tax rate.
Exceptional items means items that, by virtue of their nature B2C revenue comprises commission revenue and revenue andincidence, have been disclosed separately in order to draw fromfees charged in connection with orders paid for by credit them to the attention of the reader of the financial statements.
Executive Directors means David Buttress and Mike Wroe.
Benelux means the Groups operations in Belgium and FBA means FBA Invest SaS, the Groups French subsidiary which Netherlands.
Board means the Board of Directors of JUST EAT plc.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
Full Time Equivalent FTE the number of employees after Clicca e Mangia means business assets acquired in Italy.
factoring in reduced hours worked by part time staff.
Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
FVTPL means fair value through profit or loss.
Company means JUST EAT plc, a company incorporated in GHG means greenhouse gas.
England and Wales with registered number 06947854 whose GMT - means general management team.
registered office is at Masters House, 107 Hammersmith Road, London W14 0QH.
Group means JUST EAT plc and its subsidiary undertakings asdefined by the Companies Act 2006.
Consumer end users of the JUST EAT websites and Apps, whouse it to place orders online.
indd 120 06 03 2016 20:30 Financial Statements HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Shareholder means a holder for the time being of Ordinary shares of the Company.
IAS means International Accounting Standard s. SinDelantal means SinDelantal Mexico S. A fide C. V, the Groups IF-JE means IF-JE Participaes Ltda, the Groups Brazilian Mexican subsidiary.
SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
IFRS IC means International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee.
Takeaway restaurant any restaurant signed up to JUST EAT, offering either delivery or collection services via the JUST EAT IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standard s websites or Apps.
asadopted for use in the European Union.
The Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code published Nifty Nosh means Nifty Nosh Limited, the Groups Northern by the FRC September 2014, as in force from time to time.
TSR means total shareholder return the growth in value of IP means Intellectual Property.
ashareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends arereinvested to purchase additional shares.
IPO means Initial Public Offering of the Companys Ordinary shares immediately post Admission on 8 April 2014.
Underlying EBITDA is the main measure of profit used by Just Connect Terminal JCT means technology provided to management to assess the performance of the Groups businesses.
takeaway restaurants who sign up, which enables them to receive It is defined as earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, orders from JUST EAT.
depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, additionally excluding the Groups share of depreciation and amortisation of joint JUST EAT means the Group or JUST EAT plc and its subsidiary ventures and associates, long-term employee incentive costs, undertakings as defined by the Companies Act 2006. exceptional items, foreign currency translation differences and other gains and losses being profits or losses arising on the JSOP means the JUST EAT Joint Share Ownership Plan.
disposal and deemed disposal of operations, and fair value gains KPI means Key Performance Indicator.
and losses on financial assets classified as fair value through profitor loss.
Menulog means Menulog Group Limited, the Groups holding company of the Australian and New Zealand subsidiaries.
At a segmental level, Underlying EBITDA also excludes intragroup franchise fee arrangements and incorporates an allocation Mobile device means smartphones, tablets and any other of Group technology and central costs both of which net out on handheld computing device, or any of them or all of them.
Non-executive Directors means the Non-executive Directors UK GAAP means UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
ofthe Company designated as such on pages 36 and 37.
VAT means Value Added Taxation.
Ordinary shares means the Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus dated 3 April 2014 prepared in connection with the Companys Admission.
SERP means Search Engine Results Page.
