Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 1.
General information The Company is a limited liability, closed-ended investment company incorporated and domiciled in Jersey on 23 December 2013.
The Group comprises the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group and individually Group companies.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office of the Company is 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD, Channel Islands.
The Company invests in investment and development property, hotel businesses and loans secured by real estate in Europe with the objective of generating and growing long-term cash flows to pay dividends and to enhance capital values through focused asset management and strategic acquisitions.
The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue on 25 February 2016 and signed by Simon Radford and Mark McNicholas on behalf of the Board.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The Company has not early adopted any forthcoming IASB standards.
Note 4 sets out the details of such upcoming standards.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with the prior period, save for the re-presentation of the consolidated income statement.
Note 40 sets out the details of the re-presentation.
Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements are for the year ended 31 December 2015 and have been prepared on the going concern basis, applying the historical cost convention except for investment and development property, certain loans secured by real estate, certain property, plant and equipment and derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value using the accounting policies as set out in Note 3.
C. Functional and presentational currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in Pound Sterling as this is the Companys functional currency.
All financial information presented in Pound Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million, and presented to one decimal place, except where otherwise stated.
D. Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements in the year ending 31 December 2015 include managements estimates of the fair value of investment and development property Note 17, loans secured by real estate Note 18 and land and buildings Note 19.
Significant accounting policies The following new and amended standards and interpretations are effective for the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015.
None of these had a material impact on the Group: IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 Annual Improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 Cycle Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 27 Investment Entities and IFRIC 21 Levies.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
92 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information ii.
Business combinations The Group acquires subsidiaries that may own investment and development property or carry on businesses, including the ownership of hotels or other forms of own-use assets.
At the time of acquisition, the Group considers whether each acquisition represents the acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
The Group accounts for an acquisition as a business combination where an integrated set of activities is acquired in addition to the property.
More specifically, consideration is given as to the extent to which significant processes are acquired and, in particular, the extent of services provided by the subsidiary.
When the acquisition of subsidiaries does not represent a business, it is accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets and liabilities.
The cost of the acquisition is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their relative fair values, and no goodwill or deferred tax is recognised.
Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
At 31 December 2015, non-controlling interests are not material.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Property acquisitions and business combinations Where property is acquired, via corporate acquisitions or otherwise, management considers the substance of the assets and activities of the acquired entity in determining whether the acquisition represents the acquisition of a business.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and resulting deferred taxes thereon is recognised as goodwill.
Where the Group judges that an acquisition is a business combination it uses the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations at the date that control is transferred to the Group see policy A ii.
The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Any gain arising on a bargain purchase is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment.
Where such acquisitions are not judged to be an acquisition of a business, they are not accounted for as business combinations.
Instead, the cost of acquisition is allocated between the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based on the relative fair values at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, no goodwill or additional deferred taxation arises.
C. Foreign currency translation Items included within the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss for the financial period see policy C ii.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Pound Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Pound Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on re-translation are taken to other comprehensive income OCI and then accumulated in a separate foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of in its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes of part of its interest in a subsidiary but retains control, then the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to NCIs.
When the Group disposes of any part of an associate or joint venture while retaining significant influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued D. Revenue recognition Revenue includes rental income and other property related revenue, service charges and management charges from properties, hotel revenue and interest income from loans secured by real estate.
Investment property income Rental income from operating leases on investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides incentives to its tenants, the cost of incentives is recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental income.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the Directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise the option.
Contingent rents, which are dependent on the turnover levels of lessees, are recognised as income in the periods in which they are earned.
Rent reviews are recognised when such rent reviews have been agreed with the tenants.
Surrender premiums received are considered a component of rental income.
Lease incentives are recognised as an integral part of the net consideration for use of the property and are amortised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease, or the period to the first tenant break, if shorter, unless there is reasonable certainty that the break will not be exercised.
Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the compensation becomes receivable.
Service and management charges and other such receipts are included in rental income gross of the related costs, as the Directors consider the Group acts as principal in this respect.
Interest income on loans secured by real estate Interest income on loans secured by real estate is recognised in profit or loss on an effective interest rate basis over the period to expected maturity.
Hotel revenue Hotel revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the normal course of business and recognised when services have been rendered.
Such revenues typically include rental of rooms, food and beverage sales and other ancillary revenues from hotels owned by the Group.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are expensed as the related service is provided.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
F. Interest income from cash and cash equivalents Interest income from cash and cash equivalents is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest rate method.
G. Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings including amortisation of deferred debt issue costs and are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
All interest expense on borrowings is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred, unless it is directly related to investment property under development in which case it is capitalised.
H. Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
It is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to the recording of a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
Current tax Current tax is calculated as the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the financial period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, with any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for: temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss and temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
94 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that follow the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
For investment and development property that is expected to be measured at fair value, the presumption that the carrying amount of investment and development property will be recovered through sale is not expected to be rebutted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but the Group intends to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or the Groups tax assets and liabilities are realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer expected to be probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they become obligations of the Company.
Investment and development property Property held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Group, is classified as investment property and recorded at fair value.
Investment property also includes property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property see Note 5A.
Investment property is recognised when it has been acquired and future economic benefits are expected to be derived from its ownership.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs and subsequently measured at fair value with any change recognised in profit or loss.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset would result in either gains or losses at the retirement or disposal of the investment property.
Any gains or losses are recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Any gain or loss on disposal of an investment property calculated as the difference between the proceeds from disposal, net of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the item is recognised in profit or loss.
Properties that are currently being developed or that are to be developed in the near future are held as development properties.
These properties are initially valued at cost.
Any direct expenditure on development properties is capitalised and the properties are then valued by external valuers at their respective fair value at each reporting date.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Valuations reflect, when appropriate, the type of tenants actually in occupation or responsible for meeting lease commitments or likely to be in occupation after letting vacant accommodation, the allocation of maintenance and insurance responsibilities between the Group and the lessee, and the expected remaining economic life of the property.
When rent reviews or lease renewals are pending with anticipated reversionary increases, it is assumed that all notices, and when appropriate counter-notices, have been served validly and within the appropriate time.
K. Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings which represent hotels are initially measured at cost plus any costs that are directly attributable to acquiring, and thereafter they are measured at fair value see Note 5C.
Revaluation gains are credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity within a revaluation reserve unless representing the reversal of an impairment of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss, in which case the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
A decrease arising as a result of a revaluation is recognised as an expense to the extent that it exceeds any amount previously credited to the revaluation surplus relating to the same asset.
Any gain recognised in OCI is not re-classified into the profit or loss upon disposal of the associated asset.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and any impairment.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or loss.
All property, plant and equipment excluding land are depreciated to residual value over their estimated useful lives, namely: Buildings 40 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued L. Expenses Expenses are recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred, on an accruals basis.
M. Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on a first-in, first-out basis.
N. Assets held-for-sale Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets, investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups other accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale or  and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in the profit or loss.
Once classified as held-for-sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated.
Borrowings All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Note 5D.
P. Financial instruments i. Non-derivative financial assets The Group initially recognises loans secured by real estate on the date that they are purchased.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
The Group classifies its cash and cash equivalents and rent and other receivables as loans and receivables which are measured at amortised cost with loans secured by real estate being designated at fair value through the profit or loss.
At 31 December 2015 the Group had the following non-derivative financial assets: a.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with maturities of three months or less from the acquisition date that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and are used by the Group in the management of its short-term commitments.
These assets are classified as loans and receivables initially measured at fair value less initial direct costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
Rent and other receivables Rent and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value less initial direct costs, which is usually the original invoiced amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision made for impairment, if applicable.
Where there is objective evidence that an incurred impairment loss has arisen, appropriate allowances for any irrecoverable amounts are recognised through profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
c. Loans secured by real estate Loans secured by real estate have been designated to be measured at fair value through profit or loss as the assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally on a fair value basis.
Any related initial direct costs relating to these loans are charged immediately as an expense through profit or loss.
Interest income will be accreted to profit or loss separately using the effective interest rate method see policy D ii.
Non-derivative financial liabilities All financial liabilities are recognised initially at the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are measured initially at fair value less initial direct costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
96 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information iii.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses a variety of derivative instruments to mitigate certain interest rate and foreign currency financial risks including interest rate caps, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency zero premium options.
The Group does not enter into derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivative instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with its risk management policies.
All derivatives are recognised at fair value.
The treatment of the change in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, the nature of the item being hedged and the effectiveness of the hedge see Note 5E.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Net investment hedges The Group designates foreign currency forward contracts, options, cross-currency swaps and certain foreign currency denominated corporate debt as hedges of its net investment in foreign operations.
At inception the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged items, its risk management objectives and the strategy for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items, both at inception and future periods.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in OCI.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss within finance income or costs, as appropriate.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the foreign operation is sold then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively and gains or losses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
b. Derivatives not designated as hedges Interest rate caps are used to economically hedge the Groups exposure to certain borrowing related interest rate risks and are not formally designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in profit or loss within finance income or finance cost as appropriate.
The fair values of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 26 and Note 27.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when its remaining maturity is more than one year: it is classified as a current asset or liability when its remaining maturity is less than one year.
c. Master netting or similar agreements The derivatives do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet.
This is because the Group does not have any currently legally enforceable right to offset recognised amounts, because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as credit events.
Q. Share-based payments The Group enters into equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in respect of services provided to it by KW Investment Management Ltd the Investment Manager.
Where the method of settlement of the award is dependent on the achievement of a market-based performance condition which is outside of the control of the Company, and the award may be settled either through market purchase of shares or the issue of shares, the Company assesses the recognition by references to IAS 37. i.
Investment management fee In relation to the Investment Managers management fee at grant date, the monetary value of the award it will receive is dependent on a non-market performance condition, being the EPRA NAV at each quarter end.
The award is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement.
The cost of the services received in respect of the shares is recognised in the profit or loss over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
Performance fee The performance fee arrangement is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement.
The grant date is 1 January and on that date, the Company estimates the grant date fair value of each equity instrument and the number of equity instruments for which the service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be satisfied, resulting in the initial estimate of the total share-based payment cost which is expensed over the vesting period.
Subsequent to the initial recognition and measurement, the estimate of the number of equity instruments for which the service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be satisfied is revised during the vesting period, that is, the period from 1 January to 31 December.
Ultimately, the share-based payment cost is based on the fair value of the number of equity instruments issued upon satisfaction of these conditions.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from the stated capital account included in equity.
S. Provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risk specific to the liability.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 4.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for future annual reporting periods of the Group, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The upcoming standards are set out below and the Group is currently assessing their potential impact.
The Group does not plan to early-adopt these standards.
New Revised International Financial Reporting Standards 1 Effective date Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 19 1 February 2015 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle 1 February 2015 Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 2 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41: Bearer Plants 1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016 2 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 2 Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 2 Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 2 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2009, and subsequent amendments in 2010 and 2013 1 January 2018 2 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Footnotes: 1.
The effective dates are those applying to European Union endorsed IFRS if later than the IASB effective dates and relate to periods beginning on or after those dates detailed above 2.
Not European Union endorsed at the time of approval of the consolidated financial statements 5.
Determination of fair values A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities.
Fair value is defined in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the methods described below.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during the period.
There were no transfers between Levels 2 and 3 during the period.
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period.
Investment and development property The fair value of investment and development property was determined by external, independent property valuers, having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Such a valuation takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Independent valuers will assess the fair value of the Groups investment and development property portfolio every six months.
The fair value measurement for investment and development property of 2,554.3 million FY 2014: 1,219.7 million has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique noted above.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to investment and development property is set out in Note 17.
98 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Loans secured by real estate The fair value of loans secured by real estate was determined by independent valuers having appropriate and recent experience in the valuation of loans.
Such independent valuers will assess the fair value of the Groups portfolio of loans secured by real estate every six months.
The fair value measurement for loans secured by real estate of 179.2 million FY 2014: 211.0 million has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique noted above.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to loans secured by real estate is set out in Note 18.
C. Land and buildings The fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined by external, independent valuers, having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent experience in the location and category of the asset being valued.
Independent valuers will assess the fair value of the Groups land and buildings every six months.
The fair value measurement for land and buildings included within property, plant and equipment of 54.6 million FY 2014: 55.2million has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique noted above.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to property, plant and equipment is set out in Note 19.
D. Borrowings The valuation technique used in the disclosures for borrowings and other debt is a comparison of debt stock to the marginal cost of debt from main funding markets in addition to discounting using the zero coupon discount curve of the relevant currency.
The fair value measurement for bonds of 589.4 million FY 2014: nil has been categorised as a Level 2 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique noted above.
The fair value measurement for secured borrowings of 832.0 million FY 2014: 545.9 million has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique noted above.
Further information about borrowings is set out in Note 25.
E. Derivative financial instruments The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate based on government bonds, adjusting for credit risk where appropriate.
The fair value of interest rate caps is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated using Blacks model to calculate the net present value of expected future cash flows based on observable market volatility and interest rates, adjusting for credit risk, where appropriate.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated using a variant of the Black-Scholes model tailored for currency derivatives.
The net present value of expected future cash flows is calculated based on observable market foreign exchange volatility, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, adjusting for credit risk, where appropriate.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 26.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 6.
Basis of segmentation The Group is organised into six business segments, against which the Group reports its segmental information, being office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate, residential real estate, loans secured by real estate and hotels.
These segments are reported separately because they offer different products or services and are managed separately because they require different strategies.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision makers which is updated as required by the business, who has been identified as the board of directors of the Company the Board.
The following summary describes the operations of each reportable segment: Segment Description Office real estate Property which is primarily used by commercial tenants Retail real estate Property comprising primarily high street retail or shopping centres, together with leisure assets Industrial real estate Property used by tenants primarily for the purposes of manufacturing and distribution, or mixed use Residential real estate Tenanted residential property, in the private residential sector Loans secured by real estate A loan that is in default or close to being in default, receivership or liquidation, where the borrower is typically not making full payments and the LTV is greater than 100% Hotels Ownership and management of hotels, namely Fairmont St Andrews Hotel United Kingdom and Portmarnock Hotel Ireland There are varying levels of integration between the office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate, residential real estate and hotel segments.
This integration consists primarily of shared asset management resources.
Unallocated income and expenses are items incurred centrally which are neither directly attributable nor reasonably allocable to individual segments.
Unallocated assets are primarily cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups key measure of underlying performance of the office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate and residential real estate segments is rental income as this measure illustrates and emphasises those segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of those segments to earnings per share.
By focusing the prime performance measurement on rental income, other statistical data such as valuation movements are separately highlighted for analysis and attention.
The Groups key measure of underlying performance of the loans secured by real estate segment is fair value gain as this measure illustrates and emphasises that segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of that segment to earnings per share.
The Groups key performance measure of underlying performance of the hotel sector is hotel revenue as this measure illustrates and emphasises that segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of that segment to earnings per share.
Information related to each reportable segment is set out below.
Segment profit loss before tax is used to measure performance because management believes that this information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate in similar sectors.
100 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Investment property under development, as identified in Note 17B ii is allocated into a segment based on the current expected future use Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued II.
Profit before tax for the period ended 31 December 2014 Loans Office real Retail real Industrial Residential secured by Segment estate estate real estate real estate real estate Hotels total Unallocated Total Re-presented m m m m m m m m m Revenue Rental income 31.7 10.4 7.0 2.3 51.4 51.4 Hotel revenue 8.4 8.4 8.4 Interest income from loans secured by real estate 6.6 6.6 6.6 31.7 10.4 7.0 2.3 6.6 8.4 66.4 66.4 Property related expenses 6.0 1.7 0.3 0.3 8.3 8.3 Hotel cost of sales 4.3 4.3 4.3 Administrative expenses 3.1 3.1 3.1 Net operating income 25.7 8.7 6.7 2.0 6.6 1.0 50.7 50.7 Gain on sale 0.4 0.4 0.4 Net change in the fair value of investment and development property 27.4 8.6 12.4 0.9 49.3 49.3 Net change in the fair value of loans secured by real estate 6.0 6.0 6.0 Gain on purchase of a business 1.8 1.8 1.8 53.1 17.3 19.5 2.9 12.6 2.8 108.2 108.2 Expenses Administrative expenses 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.5 0.5 3.8 7.7 11.5 Investment management fee 8.4 8.4 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.5 0.5 3.8 16.1 19.9 Results from operating activities before financing costs 52.0 16.4 18.7 2.4 12.6 2.3 104.4 16.1 88.3 Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.3 Finance costs 6.5 0.8 0.7 1.2 9.2 9.2 6.5 0.8 0.7 1.2 9.2 1.3 7.9 Segment profit loss before tax 45.5 15.6 18.0 1.2 12.6 2.3 95.2 14.8 80.4 III.
Assets liabilities at 31 December 2015 Retail Industrial Residential Loans Office real real real secured by Segment 1 1 1 1 real estate estate estate estate real estate Hotels total Unallocated Total m m m m m m m m m Assets Current assets 92.5 51.3 13.8 5.0 1.8 3.1 167.5 238.7 406.2 Total segment assets 1,627.0 858.0 191.0 191.7 180.9 62.3 3,110.9 46.0 3,156.9 Liabilities Total segment liabilities 876.8 611.8 127.7 52.3 0.6 6.2 1,675.4 147.7 1,527.7 IV.
Assets liabilities at 31 December 2014 Loans Office real Retail real Industrial Residential secured by Segment estate estate real estate real estate real estate Hotels total Unallocated Total m m m m m m m m m Assets Current assets 38.5 9.4 3.9 3.0 3.9 2.0 60.7 429.7 490.4 Total segment assets 810.3 262.0 113.4 87.4 214.9 61.7 1,549.7 437.2 1,986.9 Liabilities Total segment liabilities 352.3 142.7 57.4 38.8 4.3 595.5 1.5 597.0 Footnote: 1.
Investment property under development, as identified in Note 17B ii is allocated into a segment based on the current expected future use 102 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information C. Geographic information The office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate and residential real estate segments are primarily in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Italy and Spain.
Italy and Spain are grouped together and reported as Rest of Europe.
The geographic information below analyses the Groups segment revenue, current assets and non-current assets, and total liabilities, by geography.
In presenting the following information, segment revenue, current assets and non-current assets, and total liabilities were based on the geographic location of the relevant asset.
Revenue Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 Re-presented m m United Kingdom Rental income 107.9 37.7 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 10.5 0.4 Interest income on loans secured by real estate 13.0 4.5 Hotel revenue 14.2 5.3 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 3.6 4.1 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 113.8 38.0 263.0 90.0 Ireland Rental income 29.0 13.7 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 4.1 Interest income on loans secured by real estate 0.4 2.1 Hotel revenue 5.8 3.1 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 1.5 1.9 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 88.1 11.3 128.9 32.1 Rest of Europe Rental income 1.9 Other gains 0.8 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 6.1 8.8 Total Rental income 138.8 51.4 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 14.6 0.4 Interest income on loans secured by real estate 13.4 6.6 Hotel revenue 20.0 8.4 Other gains 0.8 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 5.1 6.0 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 208.0 49.3 400.7 122.1 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued II.
Represents amounts relating to corporate balances 7.
Rental income The accounting policy applicable to rental income is set out in Note 3D i.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Rental income 121.9 44.2 Service charge income 14.6 5.0 Other property related income 2.3 2.2 138.8 51.4 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 Included within Other property related income is turnover rent in the amount of 0.1 million FY 2014: 0.1 million.
In addition the Group received surrender premiums totalling 1.3 million FY 2014: 1.4 million.
104 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 8.
Property related expenses The accounting policy applicable to property related expenses is set out in Note 3L.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Service charge expense 14.6 6.0 Property insurance expense 0.7 0.2 Other property operating expenses 3.0 1.3 Fees payable to managing agents 1.7 0.1 Letting, marketing, legal and professional fees 1.4 0.1 Vacant property costs 1.0 0.5 Ground rent 0.3 0.1 22.7 8.3 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 9.
Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral The accounting policy applicable to gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral is set out in Note 3J.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Investment property Gross proceeds from the sale of investment property 97.9 0.5 Selling costs 2.2 Net proceeds on sale of investment property 95.7 0.5 Carrying value of assets held as investment property 86.1 Gain on disposal of investment property 9.6 0.5 Loan collateral Gross proceeds from the sale of collateral property on the loans secured by real estate 96.6 36.4 Selling costs Net proceeds on sale of collateral property 96.6 36.4 Carrying value of collateral assets 91.6 36.5 Gain loss on disposal of loan collateral 5.0 0.1 14.6 0.4 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 10.
Hotel revenue The accounting policy applicable to hotel revenue is set out in Note 3D iii.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Room income 8.9 3.6 Food and beverage income 7.6 3.4 Other hotel income 3.5 1.4 20.0 8.4 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 11.
Hotel cost of sales The accounting policy applicable to hotel cost of sales is set out in Note 3L.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 6.2 1.6 Consumables 2.4 1.1 Depreciation Note 19 2.2 0.7 Other costs 3.6 0.9 14.4 4.3 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 12.
Administrative expenses The accounting policy applicable to administrative expenses is set out in Note 3L.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Consultancy and other advisory fees 6.9 5.7 General expenses 4.9 2.4 Acquisition costs 1.7 3.6 Legal fees 0.8 0.2 Employee benefit 0.6 1.7 Audit and related fees Note 39 0.5 0.4 Directors fees Note 31B 0.3 0.3 Impairment charge on receivables 0.2 0.3 15.9 14.6 Included in the above table are costs associated with the hotel segment as follows: Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Hotel administrative costs General expenses 2.6 1.1 Consultancy and other advisory fees 1.8 0.5 Employee benefit 0.6 1.5 5.0 3.1 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 106 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 13.
Finance income The accounting policies applicable to finance income are set out in Note 3C ii, Note 3D ii and Note 3F.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Interest income from loans secured by real estate 13.4 6.6 Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 0.6 1.3 14.0 7.9 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 14.
Finance costs The accounting policies applicable to finance costs are set out in Note 3G and Note 3P iii b.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Interest on secured borrowings 21.6 6.1 Interest on unsecured 400.0 million 3.25% bond 3.0 Interest on standalone unsecured 300.0 million 3.95% bond 3.4 Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 3.4 0.4 Time value movement of foreign exchange zero premium options 2.3 Commitment fee on revolving credit facility 1.1 0.6 Bond discount amortisation 0.3 Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 0.8 2.1 Foreign currency loss 0.6 Bank fees and other costs 0.3 36.8 9.2 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 15.
Taxation The accounting policy applicable to taxation is set out in Note 3H.
Company The Company is tax resident in Jersey.
Jersey has a corporate tax rate of zero under schedule D of the Income Tax Jersey Law 1961 as amended, so the Company is not subject to tax in Jersey on its income or gains and is not subject to United Kingdom or other jurisdiction corporation tax on any dividend or interest income it receives.
No charge to Jersey taxation will arise on capitalgains.
Group The directors conduct the affairs of the Group such that the management and control of the Group is exercised in Jersey and that the Group does not carry on a trade in the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction.
The Group is liable to foreign tax on activities in its overseas subsidiaries.
Outside of Jersey, the Group has subsidiaries and funds in Luxembourg, the Republic of Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom and investment and development property located in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Italy and Spain.
Luxembourg has a corporate tax rate of 29.22% on worldwide income including capital gains.
However, the Groups tax liability is expected to be mitigated by the Luxembourg participation exemption and debt financing.
The Groups investment and development property located in the Republic of Ireland are held through two Irish Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Funds.
With effect from 1 December 2015, both of these Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Funds have been converted to and operate as Irish Collective Asset-Management Vehicles under the Irish Collective Asset-Management Vehicles Act 2015.
Both these vehicles are exempt from any Irish taxation on income and gains.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued The Groups investment property located in Italy is held through a closed-end real estate alternative investment fund named Olimpia Investment Fund, wholly-owned by the Company and managed by Savills Investment Management Sgr Spa.
Olimpia Investment Fund is exempt from Italian tax on income and gains.
The Groups investment in St Andrews Bay Development Limited, a company domiciled in Scotland and which owns the Fairmont St Andrews Hotel, is subject to United Kingdom corporate tax at a rate of 20% expected to reduce to 19% on 1 April 2017.
The Group is subject to corporate income tax at 28% 25% from 2016 onwards on taxable profits generated within its Spanish subsidiaries.
The Group is subject to United Kingdom income tax on rental income arising on the investment properties, after deduction of allowable debt financing and allowable expenses.
The treatment of such costs and expenses is estimated in the overall tax liability for the Group and requires judgement and assumptions regarding their deductibility.
The Directors have considered comparable market evidence and practice in determining the extent to which such items are allowable.
Taxation is currently calculated at a rate applicable to the relevant Group undertakings of 20%.
C. Amounts recognised in the profit or loss Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Current tax expense Current period 7.6 1.9 7.6 1.9 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 D. Reconciliation of effective tax rate The charge for the year can be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as follows: Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Tax expense reconciliation Profit before tax for the period 266.6 80.4 Income tax charge using weighted average applicable tax rates 53.3 16.1 Tax effect of non-taxable income 22.9 6.5 Non-taxable net fair value gains 23.3 7.9 Tax effect of losses not previously recognised 0.1 0.1 Expenses disallowed 0.4 0.1 Tax charge 7.6 1.9 Effective tax rate on profit before tax % 20.0 20.0 Effective tax rate after allowable adjustments % 2.8 2.4 Analysed as arising from: Investment and development property located in the United Kingdom 7.4 1.9 Investment and development property located in Spain 0.2 7.6 1.9 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 108 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information E. Deferred tax asset Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Opening balance Tax operating losses acquired through share acquisition 1.5 Closing balance 1.5 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 F. Unrecognised deferred tax asset Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can use the benefits therefrom.
The Group is only able to utilise the losses to offset taxable profits in certain discrete business streams.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 9.5 Tax operating losses acquired through a business combination 5.2 Deductible temporary differences which will never expire acquired through a business combination 4.3 Deferred tax assets acquired through share acquisition 5.3 Tax operating losses utilised during the year 0.5 Deductible temporary differences which will never expire arising during the year 0.3 Closing balance 14.6 9.5 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 On 29 December 2015 the Group, via one of its wholly owned subsidiary companies acquired 100% of the share capital of Parque Comercial Guadalhorce SL, which owns an asset in Madrid.
At the date of acquisition there were historic tax losses carried forward relating to tax years 2010 to 2012 inclusive totalling 27.5 million.
See further details in Note 35D.
In 2014, the Group acquired St Andrews Bay Development Limited, the owner of the Fairmont St Andrews hotel, as a going concern.
Brought forward tax losses total 23.5 million FY 2014: 24.9 million and brought forward deductible temporary differences total 22.7 million FY 2014: 20.4 million.
The directors have established that it is uncertain whether future taxable profits would be available against which these amounts can be utilised, and therefore these amounts have been included in the balance of unrecognised deferred tax assets above.
Earnings, net asset value per share and EPRA metrics Basic earnings per share at 31 December 2015 is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year and adjusting for shares to be issued in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 December 2015, if any.
Basic net asset value NAV per share is calculated by dividing net assets in the consolidated balance sheet attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2015.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued A.
Basic, diluted, EPRA earnings and Adjusted earnings per share reconciliation Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 2 2 m p m p Profit for the period after taxation 259.0 191.0 78.5 88.0 Adjusted for: Net change in fair value of investment and development property Note 17 208.0 153.4 49.3 55.3 Net change in the fair value of loans secured by real estate Note 18 5.1 3.8 6.0 6.7 Fair value loss on interest rate caps Note 14 0.8 0.6 2.1 2.4 Time value of foreign exchange zero premium options Note 14 2.3 1.6 Gain on purchase of a business and acquisition related expenditure 1.7 1.3 1.8 2.1 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral Note 9 and other gains 15.4 11.3 0.4 0.4 EPRA earnings 35.3 26.0 23.1 25.9 Group adjustments: Performance fee 29.7 21.9 Adjusted earnings 65.0 47.9 23.1 25.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Note 28B 135,613,838 89,071,782 Footnotes: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 2.
Per share amount The European Public Real Estate Association EPRA issued Best Practices Recommendations, most recently in December 2014.
The EPRA earnings are presented to provide what the Company believes is a more appropriate assessment of the operational income accruing to the Groups activities.
Hence, the Company adjusts basic earnings for income and costs which are not of a recurrent nature or which may be more of a capital nature.
In addition, the Group has made additional adjustments to EPRA earnings in order to remove other non-trading items not considered by EPRA in its Best Practice Recommendations, in order to present an Adjusted earnings figure.
2014 comparative was re-presented in accordance with EPRA Best Practice Recommendations 2014 3.
Represents the difference between the book value of borrowings and the fair value of borrowings 110 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information EPRA has issued guidelines aimed at providing a measure of NAV on the basis of the long-term fair values.
At each of 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, there was no material deferred tax applicable to the business and there are no dilutive or potentially dilutive equity arrangements in existence.
In addition the Group reports an Adjusted NAV to illustrate EPRA NAV after the impact of fees recognised in the share-based payment reserve.
EPRA NNNAV is a measure to report the net asset value including fair value adjustments in respect of all material balance sheet items which are not reported at their fair value as part of EPRA NAV.
Investment and development property The accounting policies applicable to investment and development property are set out in Note 3J and the fair value disclosures contained in Note 5A, and the accounting policies applicable to assets held-for-sale are set out in Note 3N.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Investment property Opening balance 1,182.5 Acquisition of investment property 1,011.7 1,165.7 Acquisition of collateral from loans secured by real estate 139.9 Disposal of investment property Note 9 86.1 Improvements to investment property 22.4 4.2 Transfer to investment property under development 3.2 27.9 Transfer to assets held-for-sale Note 37 51.0 Net change in fair value 173.0 49.3 Effects of translation to presentation currency 22.2 8.8 Closing balance 2,367.0 1,182.5 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Investment property under development Opening balance 35.8 Acquisition of investment property under development 28.8 7.2 Development expenditure 31.8 1.4 Transfer from investment property 3.2 27.9 Net change in fair value 35.0 Effects of translation to presentation currency 1.4 0.7 Closing balance 133.2 35.8 Disclosed as: Carrying value of investment and development property 2,500.2 1,218.3 Assets held-for-sale Note 37 51.0 1 Adjustment in respect of straight line leases 3.1 1.4 Fair value of investment and development property 2,554.3 1,219.7 Footnote: 1.
Included as a component of the Rent and other receivables balance in the consolidated balance sheet Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued A. Reconciliation of investment and development property 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Reconciliation Investment property 2,367.0 1,182.5 Investment property under development 133.2 35.8 Assets held-for-sale Note 37 51.0 1 Straight line rent 3.1 1.4 2,554.3 1,219.7 Footnote: 1.
Included as a component of the Rent and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheet The historical cost of investment properties acquired during the year, inclusive of acquisition costs, is 1,011.7 million FY 2014: 1,165.7 million.
The total expenditure incurred to acquire investment properties under development during the year is 28.8 million FY 2014: 7.2 million.
A negligible amount of interest was capitalised into the cost base of investment property under development in the current year FY 2014: nil.
Acquisition costs which comprise primarily stamp duty, legal services and other directly attributable costs arising from the transactions, amounted to 34.5 million FY 2014: 33.8 million.
The net fair value gain of 208.0 million FY 2014: 49.3 million recognised in respect of investment and development property has been taken to the consolidated income statement.
Long-term leasehold values included within investment properties amount to 401.7 million FY 2014: 286.8 million.
The leasehold investment properties have between 125 and 999 years remaining on the lease term FY 2014: 125 to 999 years.
All other properties are freehold.
At 31 December 2015, the Group was contractually committed to 66.1 million of future expenditure for the purchase, construction, development and enhancement of investment and development property.
See further details in Note 35A.
The Group complies with IAS 40 Investment Properties.
B. Valuation process The Group utilises the staff of the Investment Manager and certain of its affiliates the Investment Manager Group who hold relevant internationally recognised professional qualifications and are experienced in valuing the types of properties in the applicable locations.
The valuations are based on: Information provided by the Investment Manager Group including rents, lease terms, revenue and capital expenditure.
Such information is derived from the Investment Manager Groups financial and property systems and is subject to the Groups overall control environment.
Valuation models used by the external valuers, including market related assumptions based on their professional judgement and market observation.
The Investment Manager reviews the valuations arrived at by the external valuers.
This review includes a discussion with the Board and separately with the external valuers on the assumptions used, the process and methodology undertaken and a review of the data considered by the external valuers.
The Board determines the Groups valuation policies and procedures for property valuation.
The Board decides which external valuer to appoint to be responsible for the external valuations of the Groups properties.
Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained.
The Board decides after discussions with the Groups external valuers and the Investment Manager: Whether a propertys fair value can be reliably determined Which valuation method should be applied for each property and The assumptions made for unobservable inputs used in the valuation method the major unobservable inputs are estimated rent per square foot, estimated rental value and equivalent yield.
112 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The fair value of the Groups investment and development property at 31 December 2015 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by our external valuers.
CBRE valued all investment and development properties, except for the Italian portfolio which was valued by Colliers Real Estate Services Italia S. r. l. con socio unico together, the Valuers.
The valuations performed by the Valuers, conform to IFRS 13, the Valuation Standards of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Professional Standards 2014 the RICS Red Book and with the International Valuation Boards International Valuation Standards, and were arrived at by reference to market comparables for similar properties.
The Valuers submit and present summary reports to the Groups Audit Committee.
The Valuers are independent and external to the Group and the Investment Manager.
Valuations are performed bi-annually and are performed consistently across all properties in the Groups portfolio.
The valuation dates are 30 June and 31 December, and a valuation is normally conducted regardless of the date of acquisition.
This includes a physical inspection of all properties, at least once a year.
In line with IFRS 13 all investment properties are valued on the basis of their highest and best use.
When considering the highest and best use a valuer will consider, on a property by property basis, its actual and potential uses which are physically, legally and financially viable.
Where the highest and best use differs from the existing use, the valuer will consider the cost and likelihood of achieving and implementing this change in arriving at its valuation.
Annual valuation fees are calculated as a fixed percentage of the value of the investment and development property, as agreed between the Group and the Valuers.
The Valuers have advised us that the fees earned by each of them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
In addition to the valuation work, CBRE has carried out agency and professional services on behalf of the Group since inception.
The Group, consistent with EPRAs guidance, consider that all of its investment and development property falls within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5A.
The valuations have been prepared on the basis of Market Value which is defined in the RICS Valuation Standards as: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Market value as defined in the RICS Valuation Standards is the equivalent of fair value under IFRS.
Investment property To determine the value of investment property, the income approach is used.
This involves applying market derived capitalisation yields to current and market derived future income streams with appropriate adjustments for income voids arising from vacancies, or rent-free periods.
These capitalisation yields and future income streams are derived from comparable property and leasing transactions and are considered to be key inputs in the valuation.
Other factors that are taken into account include the tenure of the property, tenancy details, planning, building and environmental factors that might affect the property.
The comparison methodology is used for residential properties whereby the fair value is calculated using data from recent market transactions.
The table below sets out the valuation techniques used in the determination of the fair value of investment property, and the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2015: Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued Fair value at Range 31 December 2015 Weighted 1,3 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average United Kingdom Retail 538.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 2.78 154.19 14.27 2 ERV per sq ft 3.50 171.98 14.05 Equivalent yield % 3.3 11.8 6.3 Office 842.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 5.99 52.50 20.22 ERV per sq ft 6.00 70.00 22.14 Equivalent yield % 4.0 12.0 5.9 Industrial 179.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 10.58 4.43 ERV per sq ft 1.25 11.52 4.53 Equivalent yield % 4.5 10.0 6.4 Aggregate United Kingdom excluding Residential 1,560.2 Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 154.19 12.89 ERV per sq ft 1.25 171.98 13.51 Equivalent yield % 3.3 12.0 6.1 Residential 66.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit n a n a n a ERV per unit 12,600.00 20,700.00 16,504.00 Equivalent yield % 4.0 4.0 4.0 Aggregate United Kingdom including Residential 1,626.6 Ireland Retail 153.2 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 30.21 ERV per sq ft 5.00 302.33 26.77 Equivalent yield % 3.8 7.9 5.7 Office 306.3 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 15.43 50.85 34.90 ERV per sq ft 15.50 50.00 40.07 Equivalent yield % 4.6 8.0 5.0 Aggregate Ireland excluding Residential 459.5 Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 32.97 ERV per sq ft 5.00 302.33 34.60 Equivalent yield % 3.8 8.0 5.3 Residential 76.7 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit 17,837.00 24,450.00 18,919.00 ERV per unit 18,667.00 29,250.00 19,977.00 Equivalent yield % 4.7 5.8 4.9 Aggregate Ireland including Residential 536.2 Rest of Europe Retail 116.7 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 30.95 1,237.00 140.32 ERV per sq ft 39.00 660.03 166.97 Equivalent yield % 5.4 9.5 7.0 4 Office 141.6 DCF Annual rent per sq ft 8.03 16.80 12.95 ERV per sq ft 5.57 18.58 12.13 Equivalent yield % 6.2 9.1 7.6 Aggregate Rest of Europe 258.3 Annual rent per sq ft 8.03 1,237.00 140.32 ERV per sq ft 5.57 660.03 166.97 Equivalent yield % 5.4 9.5 7.6 Total 2,421.1 Footnotes: 1.
Includes adjustment in respect of straight line leases, which is recognised in the Rent and other receivables component in the consolidated balance sheet 2.
Discounted cash flow 114 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The table below sets out the valuation techniques used in the determination of the fair value of investment property, and the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2014: Fair value at Range 31 December 2014 Weighted 1 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average United Kingdom Retail 106.8 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 3.02 59.91 10.98 2 ERV per sq ft 4.72 98.97 10.59 Equivalent yield % 4.2 23.4 7.3 Office 565.3 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 0.90 47.17 14.91 ERV per sq ft 6.66 54.57 18.94 Equivalent yield % 5.0 17.0 6.5 Industrial 109.5 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 0.89 10.54 3.94 ERV per sq ft 1.75 10.48 4.17 Equivalent yield % 5.4 16.3 7.3 Aggregate United Kingdom 781.6 Annual rent per sq ft 0.89 59.91 9.95 ERV per sq ft 1.75 98.97 11.82 Equivalent yield % 4.2 23.4 6.7 Ireland Retail 145.0 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 7.64 210.53 22.14 ERV per sq ft 7.49 206.19 19.17 Equivalent yield % 4.6 8.0 6.0 Office 183.5 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 15.43 51.93 37.63 ERV per sq ft 30.00 40.00 34.92 Equivalent yield % 4.7 6.0 5.0 Aggregate Ireland excluding Residential 328.5 Annual rent per sq ft 15.43 210.53 28.18 ERV per sq ft 7.49 206.19 25.31 Equivalent yield % 4.7 8.0 5.5 Residential 72.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit 16,081.00 16,718.00 16,227.00 ERV per unit 15,744.00 19,696.00 18,789.00 Equivalent yield % 5.0 5.9 5.1 Aggregate Ireland including Residential 400.9 Total 1,182.5 Footnotes: 1.
Estimated rental value Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued ii.
Investment property under development Investment property under development includes: A second generation office building in Dublin, Ireland Baggot Plaza A partially built development site in the Central Park portfolio in Dublin, Ireland Block K An office building at Santsima Trinidad 5 in Madrid, Spain for conversion to residential real estate A retail property at Puerta del Sol 9 in Madrid, Spain for conversion to residential real estate and Residential real estate at Postigo fide San Martn 3 in Madrid, Spain for conversion into a hotel.
Investment property under development is valued using the residual method which is the investment method, with a deduction for costs necessary to complete the development together with an allowance for the remaining risk.
Fair value at Range 31 December 2015 Weighted Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average Ireland Investment property under development 92.7 Residual Build per sq ft 56.76 158.30 101.12 ERV per sq ft 15.00 50.00 31.90 Net initial yield % 4.7 7.0 5.8 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 40.5 Residual Build per sq ft 247.12 302.86 275.74 Sales value per sq ft 710.71 962.48 837.15 ERV per sq ft 71.54 96.62 84.36 Net initial yield % 3.5 4.0 3.7 Total 133.2 Fair value at Range 31 December 2014 Weighted Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average Ireland Investment property under development 35.8 Residual Build per sq ft 168.35 168.35 168.35 ERV per sq ft 40.00 42.50 40.80 Net initial yield % 5.5 5.8 5.7 Total 35.8 Information about the Groups exposure to development risk is set out in Note 27C v. 116 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information C. Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs There are inter-relationships between all these unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
The existence of an increase in more than one unobservable input would be to magnify the impact on the valuation.
The impact on the valuation will be mitigated by the inter-relationship of two unobservable inputs moving in directions which have an opposite impact on value.
For example an increase in rent may be offset by an increase in yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
However if the inputs move in opposite directions for example ERV increases and equivalent yield decreases, valuation movements can be amplified whereas if they move in the same direction, they may offset reducing the overall net valuation movement.
Investment property Rents and ERVs have a direct relationship to fair value, while equivalent yield has an inverse relationship.
Investment property under development An increase decrease in costs to complete and the discount factor will decrease increase valuations respectively.
The following table shows the impact on the fair value of investment property under development by applying a sensitivity to significant unobservable inputs used: Fair value at Impact on valuation Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 5% change in of a 5% change on of a 25bps change in 2015 build costs ERV sales value net initial yield Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m Ireland Investment property under development 92.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 5.6 6.4 7.2 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 40.5 0.4 0.3 2.7 2.8 2.3 2.6 133.2 1.5 1.4 8.3 8.4 8.7 9.8 Fair value at Impact on valuation Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 5% change in of a 5% change on of a 25bps change in 2014 build costs rental value net initial yield Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m Ireland Investment property under development 35.8 2.2 2.2 2.0 2.2 1.1 1.1 35.8 2.2 2.2 2.0 2.2 1.1 1.1 D. Fair value of collateral At 31 December 2015 the Group had pledged a total of 269 investment properties with a fair value of 1,567.8 million FY 2014: 75 investment properties with a fair value of 987.9 million.
See further details in Note 25F.
Loans secured by real estate The accounting policy applicable to loans secured by real estate is set out in Note 3P i c and the fair value disclosures contained in Note 5B.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 211.0 Acquisition of loans secured by real estate 130.4 241.4 Disposal of collateral 161.9 36.4 Net fair value movement 5.1 6.0 Effects of translation to presentation currency 5.4 Closing balance 179.2 211.0 Loans secured by real estate are non-performing and were acquired at a discount to their nominal value reflecting their distressed state at the time of acquisition.
At 31 December 2015, all of the loans are past due.
None of the loans are expected to be repaid by recourse to the original borrower, although income from certain underlying collateral properties is being generated.
The majority of the loans were the subject of a receivership when acquired and thus all cash flow from the property is transferred to the Group.
As a result of these factors, no disclosures are made in relation to maturity, age or interest rate risk.
The objective in purchasing these loans was to generate returns for the Group in the following ways: Property operating income will be generated from the portfolio of loans secured by real estate or Disposal of the collateral assets over time to achieve a redemption of the loan at a value greater than the acquisition cost or Acquisition of the collateral asset by the Company for inclusion in the investment and development property portfolio.
The Board is responsible for determining the fair value of the loans secured by real estate bi-annually.
The valuation dates are 30June and 31 December.
Duff & Phelps Ltd. an independent valuation firm, provided third party valuation consulting services to the Board which consisted of certain limited procedures that the Board identified and requested them to perform.
118 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The limited procedures included: Performing an analysis of general market data including economic, governmental, environmental, credit market and local property market trends as they may affect the loans secured by real estate Holding discussions with the Groups Investment Manager and the Board to understand expectations and intent regarding each loan secured by real estate, and to understand investment strategy and performance Reviewing third party appraisal reports of the underlying collateral properties Considering observable market inputs for assets similar to each of the loans secured by real estate and to the collateral properties to support the valuation metrics, capitalisation rates and or discount rates Selecting appropriate valuation approaches based on the profile of each of the loans secured by real estate Placing reliance on the cash flow models prepared by the Investment Manager on behalf of the Group which are based on the contractual terms of each of the loans secured by real estate and the Groups expectations of proceeds from those collateral properties, together with reviewing the Groups cash flow models for mathematical accuracy Estimating an appropriate discount rate to discount to present value of the cash flows to arrive at a fair value conclusion through benchmarking against similar securities and market indices and Analysing other facts and data considered to be pertinent to the loans secured by real estate and the collateral properties.
As at 31 December 2015, Duff & Phelps Ltd. performed procedures on each of the three investments comprising 100% of the fair value of loans secured by real estate as at 31 December 2015.
A. Valuation process In estimating the fair value of the loans secured by real estate, the income approach was used for two of the three loan portfolios.
This is a valuation technique that provides an estimation of the fair value of an asset or business based on expectations about the cash flows that an asset or business would generate over time.
The income approach begins with an estimate of the annual cash flows expected to be generated over a discrete projection period.
The estimated cash flows for each of the years in the discrete projection period are then converted to their present value equivalent using a rate of return appropriate for the risk of achieving the projected cash flows.
The present value of the estimated cash flows is then added to the present value equivalent of the residual value of the asset if any or the business at the end of the discrete projection period to arrive at an estimate of the fair value.
In estimating the fair value of the Avon portfolio, the pending sales price, less costs to complete the transaction together with the application of a discount to reflect uncertainty of the deal closing was used.
The underlying collateral for this portfolio was sold by the administrator appointed to the borrower, subsequent to year end.
See for further details in Note 34C.
In assessing the fair value of the loans secured by real estate, Duff & Phelps Ltd. have referenced valuations performed by CBRE on the underlying collateral prepared in conformity with the RICS Red Book and with the International Valuation Boards International Valuation Standards, as described in Note 17.
At 31 December 2015, the value of the underlying collateral was 173.2 million FY 2014: 217.2 million.
Valuation fees are based on a fixed amount agreed between the Group and Duff & Phelps Ltd. and are independent of the portfolio value.
Duff & Phelps Ltd. has advised us that the fees earned by them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
The basis for the fees charged for the valuation of the underlying collateral is set out in Note 17.
The Group consider that all of its loans secured by real assets fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5B.
The key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups loans secured by real estate at 31December 2015 are the discount rates used which are based on investment opportunities to deliver similar risk-adjusted returns to an investor.
The discount rate applied to the loans, and which is dependent on the underlying loan portfolio, ranges from 8.1% to11.2%.
During the year, interest income totalling 13.4 million FY 2014: 6.6 million was recognised in the consolidated income statement Note 13.
Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs Yield has an inverse relationship to valuation.
There are inter-relationships between the unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
For example cap rates, expected lease renewal dates, and or expected disposal values, may be offset by an increase in yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued Sensitivity analysis has only been applied to the Park Inns portfolio and the Elliott portfolio.
Fair value at Impact on valuations of 31 December 100bps change in 2015 discount rate Increase Decrease m m m United Kingdom 157.3 0.3 0.3 Ireland 21.9 1.0 1.1 179.2 1.3 1.4 Fair value at Impact on valuations of 31 December 100bps change in 2014 discount rate Increase Decrease m m m United Kingdom 115.3 3.4 3.6 Ireland 95.7 3.3 3.6 211.0 6.7 7.2 19.
Property, plant and equipment The accounting policy applicable to property, plant and equipment is set out in Note 3K and the fair value disclosures set out in Note5C.
A. Reconciliation of carrying amount Land and Plant and Fixtures and buildings equipment fittings Software Other Total m m m m m m Cost Balance at 23 December 2013 Acquisition through business combinations 53.3 1.6 2.9 0.1 57.9 Other additions 0.1 0.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 2.1 2.1 Effects of translation to presentation currency 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2014 55.2 1.6 2.9 0.1 0.1 59.9 Additions 2.8 0.1 0.9 0.2 4.0 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 2.6 2.6 Effects of translation to presentation currency 0.8 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2015 54.6 1.6 3.8 0.3 60.3 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 23 December 2013 Charge for the period 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.7 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.5 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2014 0.1 0.1 0.2 Charge for the period 1.3 0.2 0.7 2.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.3 1.3 Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 0.8 1.1 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2014 55.2 1.5 2.8 0.1 0.1 59.7 At 31 December 2015 54.6 1.3 3.0 0.3 59.2 There are no restrictions on title and no property, plant and equipment has been pledged as security.
120 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B. Valuation process The Board determines the Groups valuation policies and procedures for the valuation of property, plant and equipment.
The Board decides which external valuer to appoint to be responsible for the external valuations of the Groups property, plant and equipment, which represents its hotel assets.
The Board decides after discussions with the Groups external valuers, CBRE, and the Investment Manager: Whether a propertys fair value can be reliably determined Which valuation method should be applied for each asset at 31 December 2015, the discounted cash flow methodology was applied using the projected net earnings capitalised with a market capitalisation rate and discount rate and The assumptions made for unobservable inputs used in the valuation method the major unobservable inputs are estimated hotel net operating income, occupancy rate, discount rate, exit yield and average daily rate ADR.
Annual valuation fees are calculated as a fixed percentage of the value of property, plant and equipment, as agreed between the Group and the valuer.
The valuer has advised us that the fees earned by them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
The Group, consistent with EPRAs guidance, consider that all of its property, plant and equipment falls within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5C.
The table below summarises the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups property, plant and equipment at each of 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014: Fair value at 31 December 2015 1 Asset class m Inputs United Kingdom Ireland United Kingdom 36.9 Net operating income 3.5m 2.8m Ireland 22.3 Occupancy % 72.0 72.0 Discount rate % 9.0 9.0 Exit yield % 6.5 7.0 ADR 155.64 108.12 Total 59.2 Stabilised year 2020 2018 Fair value at 31 December 2014 1 Asset class m Inputs United Kingdom Ireland United Kingdom 35.4 Net operating income 2.7m 3.1m Ireland 24.3 Occupancy % 73.0 73.0 Discount rate % 9.25 9.25 Exit yield % 6.75 7.25 ADR 138.00 107.16 59.7 Stabilised year 2018 2018 Footnote: 1.
Inputs are presented in connection with a stabilised year There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued C. Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs There are inter-relationships between all these unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
For example an increase in hotel net operating income may be offset by an increase in exit yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
However if the inputs move in opposite directions for example ADR increases and exit yield decreases, valuation movements can be amplified whereas if they move in the same direction, they may offset reducing the overall net valuation movement.
Fair value at Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 10% change in of 10% change in of 100bps change in of a 50bps change in Impact of a 5% 2015 estimated Hotel NOI occupancy % discount rate exit yield change in ADR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 36.9 3.6 3.6 11.7 11.7 5.9 8.1 3.2 3.7 10.0 10.0 Ireland 22.3 2.7 2.7 8.6 8.6 3.3 4.4 1.8 2.0 1.8 1.8 59.2 6.3 6.3 20.3 20.3 9.2 12.5 5.0 5.7 11.8 11.8 Fair value at Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 10% change in of 10% change in of 100bps change in of a 50bps change in Impact of a 5% 2014 estimated Hotel NOI occupancy % discount rate exit yield change in ADR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 35.4 3.6 3.5 10.6 10.5 6.2 4.6 2.9 2.4 4.7 4.6 Ireland 24.3 2.0 2.0 8.2 8.2 3.2 4.3 1.7 2.0 1.6 1.7 59.7 5.6 5.5 18.8 18.7 9.4 8.9 4.6 4.4 6.3 6.3 20.
Inventories The accounting policy applicable to inventories is set out in Note 3M.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current Consumable stores 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Inventories of 2.4 million FY 2014: 1.1 million were expensed during the year.
The carrying value of inventories approximates their fair value.
Rent and other receivables The accounting policy applicable to rent and other receivables is set out in Note 3P i b.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current Rent and trade receivables 9.0 4.5 VAT receivable 7.4 2.3 Prepayments, accrued interest and other receivables 6.6 7.0 Straight line rent 3.1 1.5 Deposits paid 1.7 30.8 Prepaid borrowing costs on undrawn facility 0.6 2.1 28.4 48.2 The Groups exposure to credit risks is disclosed in Note 27C ii and its exposure to market risks, impairment losses related to rent and other receivables is disclosed in Note 27C iii.
122 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information A.
Deposits paid At 31 December 2015 deposits totalling 1.7 million were paid on executing the purchase agreements for a number of acquisitions.
See further details in Note 35C.
At 31 December 2014, deposits totalling 30.8 million were paid on executing the purchase agreements for the acquisition of the Park Inns portfolio of loans secured by real estate in the amount of 5.5 million, and a further 25.3 million for the acquisition of the Gatsby portfolio of mixed use assets acquired from Aviva.
These deposits were subsequently transferred to the acquisition of investment property and loans secured by real estate, as appropriate, on closing of the respective acquisitions of the Gatsby portfolio and the Park Inns portfolio during 2015.
Rent and trade receivables The Group does not typically extend credit terms to its investment property tenants, instead requiring them to pay in advance.
Consequently the Group is not exposed to a significant credit risk.
Rent for investment property falls due on contractual quarter days.
Rent and service charge receivables are non-interest bearing and are typically due within 30 days.
Rent on tenanted residential property falls due monthly, also payable in advance.
The Groups exposure to credit risk in its hotel operations is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk or dependence on individual customers.
Management of the hotels has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
At 31 December 2015 the maximum exposure to credit risk for rent and trade receivables was 9.0 million FY 2014: 4.5 million.
Aged rent and trade receivables Allowance for impaired Gross balances Net m m m At 31 December 2015 Current 6.5 6.5 Overdue 31 60 days 0.6 0.6 Overdue 61 90 days 0.8 0.8 Overdue 91 120 days 0.5 0.5 Overdue 121 days and more 0.8 0.2 0.6 9.2 0.2 9.0 Allowance for impaired Gross balances Net m m m At 31 December 2014 Current 3.5 3.5 Overdue 31 60 days 0.2 0.2 Overdue 61 90 days 0.1 0.1 Overdue 91 120 days 0.6 0.6 Overdue 121 days and more 0.6 0.5 0.1 5.0 0.5 4.5 Allowances for impaired balances are calculated on the basis of managements knowledge of the tenants, business and the market.
Allowance for impaired balances The table below provides a reconciliation of changes in allowances for impaired balances: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 0.5 Additions 1.2 0.8 Written off as a bad debt 0.2 0.2 Released 1.3 0.1 Closing balance 0.2 0.5 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued The Board believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by more than 30 days are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour.
Cash and cash equivalents The accounting policy applicable to cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 3P i a.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current Cash at bank and on hand 146.1 44.4 Short-term deposits 180.4 397.5 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet 326.5 441.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow statement 326.5 441.9 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 approximates to its carrying value.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to cash and cash equivalents, as the Group holds cash accounts with a number of major financial institutions where credit risk is not considered significant.
The credit ratings of the financial institutions where the Group holds its balances are all investment grade according to Moodys ratings.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirement of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.153% at 31 December 2015 FY 2014: 0.365%.
All deposits are immediately available.
Trade and other payables The accounting policy applicable to trade and other payables is set out in Note 3P ii.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Trade creditors and accruals 37.7 18.9 VAT payable 18.6 8.0 Corporation tax 10.3 4.0 Security deposits 3.8 2.9 Other liabilities 1.5 1.1 71.9 34.9 Current 68.6 32.5 Non-current 3.3 2.4 71.9 34.9 Trade creditors and accruals primarily comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Information about the Groups exposure to currency risk is included in Note 27C ii b and liquidity risk is included in Note 27C iv.
124 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 24.
Deferred income The accounting policy applicable to deferred income is set out in Note 3P ii.
Borrowings The accounting policies applicable to borrowings are set out in Notes 3C i ii, Note 3P ii, Note 27 and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5D.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current liabilities Secured borrowings 0.3 0.3 Non-current liabilities Secured borrowings 841.0 553.5 Bonds 594.8 1,435.8 553.5 1,436.1 553.5 Unamortised borrowing costs 21.8 7.6 1,414.3 545.9 A. Reconciliation of carrying value Movements in the Groups borrowings are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 545.9 Assumption of non-recourse debt 202.9 Principal repayments 50.6 9.0 Repayment of debt upon refinancing of assumed non-recourse debt 154.6 Draw down of new secured debt 351.2 519.8 Proceeds on issue of 300.0 million 3.95% unsecured 7 year bond 295.2 Proceeds on issue of 400.0 million 3.25% unsecured 10 year bond 279.3 Borrowing costs 8.6 7.9 Amortisation of borrowing costs and bond discount 3.7 0.3 Effects of translation to presentation currency 1.8 5.6 Closing balance 1,414.3 545.9 The tables above, together with the analysis set out in Notes 25B, 25C and 25D include unamortised borrowing costs which will be released to the consolidated income statement over the period of the associated borrowing.
The analysis set out in Notes 25E and 25H excludes the effect of deducting unamortised borrowing costs.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued B.
Secured borrowings 2 2 Effective interest rate Fair value Book value 1 Draw down date % Maturity m m As at 31 December 2015 58.2 million mortgage borrowing 24 June 2014 EURIBOR 2.75% March 2019 35.5 34.6 3 127.0 million mortgage borrowing 7 August 2014 LIBOR 1.90% October 2019 101.7 100.0 184.0 million mortgage borrowing 24 September 2014 LIBOR 1.80% December 2019 171.1 174.2 4 264.0 million mortgage borrowing 17 December 2014 EURIBOR 2.125% December 2019 194.6 193.3 116.6 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 LIBOR 2.50% 30 January 2018 98.2 98.5 70.7 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.90% 30 January 2020 70.3 70.3 165.0 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.91% 30 January 2023 158.3 160.8 3.1 million mortgage borrowing 19 May 2015 2.92% 1 September 2037 2.3 2.3 832.0 834.0 Unamortised borrowing costs 7.3 841.3 2 2 Effective interest rate Fair value Book value 1 Draw down date % Maturity m m As at 31 December 2014 58.2 million mortgage borrowing 24 June 2014 EURIBOR 2.75% March 2019 36.5 36.5 3 127.0 million mortgage borrowing 7 August 2014 LIBOR 1.90% October 2019 124.4 124.4 184.0 million mortgage borrowing 24 September 2014 LIBOR 1.80% December 2019 181.3 181.3 264.0 million mortgage borrowing 17 December 2014 EURIBOR 2.125% December 2019 203.7 203.7 545.9 545.9 Footnotes: 1.
Draw down date or date of acquisition, whichever is later 2.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings have been established using an equivalent market value, established by the Investment Manager determining the equivalent credit spread for this debt at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings have been calculated using a discounted cash flow approach 3.
This facility contains two options to extend the maturity date by one year each upon 90 to 120 days prior notice, satisfaction of the conditions per the facility agreement and payment of a 0.125% extension fee 4.
This facility contains two options to extend the maturity date by one year each upon satisfaction of the conditions per the facility agreement and payment of a 0.2% extension fee Debt service is payable quarterly on all secured borrowings, with the exception of the debt servicing on the 3.1 million mortgage borrowing, which is paid monthly.
Interest on the unsecured standalone bonds is payable annually on the anniversary of draw down.
C. Bonds 1 1 Effective interest rate Fair value Book value Issue date % Maturity m m As at 31 December 2015 300.0 million 3.95%, 7 year unsecured bond 30 June 2015 3.95% 30 June 2022 295.1 293.5 400.0 million 3.25%, 10 year unsecured bond 12 November 2015 3.25% 12 November 2025 294.3 287.9 589.4 581.4 Unamortised borrowing costs 13.4 594.8 Footnote: 1.
The fair value of each of the unsecured bonds has been calculated using the quoted market price as at 31 December 2015 i.
300.0 million 3.95% senior unsecured bond due 2022 On 24 June 2015 the Group announced the successful launch and pricing of a seven-year, 300.0 million debut senior unsecured standalone bond which has an annual fixed coupon of 3.95%.
The bond was issued with a minimum denomination of 100,000.
126 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The bond priced on 24 June 2015 and the issue price was 295.2 million 98.407%.
On 30 June 2015 the bond was listed on the official list of the London Stock Exchange and was admitted to trading on its regulated market.
The coupon was effectively reduced to 3.35% as a result of the Group entering into swap arrangements to convert approximately 50% of the proceeds into Euro.
Interest is payable annually in arrears on the anniversary of draw down, being 30 June of each year, commencing on 30 June 2016.
This bond will mature on 30 June 2022.
Both KWE and the Bond are rated BBB outlook stable by Standard & Poors.
Multi-currency Euro Medium Term Note Programme EMTN Programme On 5 November 2015 the Group announced the establishment of a 2.0 billion EMTN Programme.
Under the EMTN Programme, the Group may issue, from time to time, up to 2.0 billion of various types of debt securities in certain markets and currencies.
The EMTN Programme was assigned a rating of BBB by Standard & Poors.
a 400.0 million 3.25% senior unsecured bond due 2025 On 6 November 2015 the Group announced the first draw down under its EMTN Programme, with the issuance of senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principal amount of 300.0 million the Notes.
On 10 November 2015 the Group announced an upsizing of the first draw down under its EMTN Programme, with the issuance of a further tranche of senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principal amount of 100.0 million.
The Notes were issued with a minimum denomination of 100,000.
The Notes will mature on 12 November 2025.
The annual fixed coupon will be 3.25%.
The Notes rank pari passu with the 300.0 million senior unsecured standalone bond due 2022.
The issue and settlement date was 12 November 2015.
The issue price for the original principal of 300.0 million was 295.3 million 98.448% whilst the further 100.0 million tranche priced at 98.1 million 98.093% giving a blended issue price of 98.359%.
On 12 November 2015 the Notes were listed on the official list of the London Stock Exchange and were admitted to trading on its regulated market.
Interest is payable annually on the anniversary of draw down.
D. Revolving credit facility Effective interest rate Fair value Book value Draw down date % Maturity m m As at 31 December 2015 225.0 million revolving credit facility 29 August 2014 n a 29 August 2017 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 On 29 August 2014 the Group obtained a multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF, for a period of three years, in the total amount of 225.0 million.
The RCF is unsecured and attracts a floating rate interest.
Any portion of the RCF utilised in Euro will bear interest at a rate of EURIBOR plus a margin which ratchets between 160bps and 260bps depending on the amount drawn, whilst any portion of the RCF which is utilised in Pound Sterling will bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin which ratchets between 160bps and 260bps depending on the amount drawn.
At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, and as at the date of these consolidated financial statements, the RCF was undrawn.
The Group incurs non-utilisation fees on the undrawn portion of the RCF.
At 31 December 2015 the weighted average charge on the undrawn facilities was 55bps FY 2014: 50bps.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued E. Maturity profile of borrowings The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Due within one year 0.3 Due between two and five years 677.3 554.7 Due between six and ten years 757.1 Due greater than ten years 1.4 Closing balance 1,436.1 554.7 F. Collateral The borrowings set out in Note 25B are secured by fixed charges over certain investment and development property assets.
The fair value of investment and development property over which security has been granted is 1,567.8 million FY 2014: 987.9 million.
The RCF and the Bonds are unsecured.
G. Valuation The fair values of the Groups mortgage debt have been estimated by calculating the present value of the future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates and are deemed to be valued within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5D.
The fair value of the Groups Bonds have been estimated with reference to the market value of these instruments at the balance sheet date and are deemed to be valued within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5D.
H. Interest rate profile of borrowings Weighted average Weighted Weighted period for average average which rate is period to Total Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate fixed maturity m m m % Years Years As at 31 December 2015 Gross borrowings in Pound Sterling 909.3 376.9 532.4 2.92 7.0 5.1 Gross borrowings in Euro 526.8 229.7 297.1 2.80 10.0 7.2 1,436.1 606.6 829.5 2.88 8.0 5.9 Weighted average Weighted Weighted period for average average which rate is period to Total Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate fixed maturity m m m % Years Years As at 31 December 2014 Gross borrowings in Pound Sterling 311.0 311.0 2.40 4.9 Gross borrowings in Euro 243.7 243.7 2.30 4.9 554.7 554.7 2.36 4.9 The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to provide an economic hedge to its interest rate risk.
Further details on interest rate risk are included in Note 27C ii a and the interest rate derivatives are disclosed in Note 26.
128 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information I.
Financial covenants Under the financial covenants relating to the unsecured bonds, the Group has to ensure that: consolidated net indebtedness as defined in the applicable bond prospectus does not exceed 60% of the total asset value consolidated secured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents does not exceed 50% of total asset value interest coverage ratio to be at least 1.5 to 1.0 and unencumbered assets are not less than 125% of the unsecured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents.
Under the financial covenants relating to the RCF, the Group has to ensure that: consolidated net indebtedness as defined in the revolving loan agreement does not exceed 60% of the total asset value a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio where consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to consolidated fixed charges is not less than 1.9 to 1.0 for the last four quarters a maximum secured recourse indebtedness for consolidated secured recourse debt does not exceed 2.5% of total asset value at any time and unencumbered assets are not less than 125% of the unsecured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents.
The borrowings are subject to various financial covenants including loan to value LTV and debt service coverage ratios, all of which were met throughout the year.
Derivative financial instruments The accounting policy applicable to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 3P iii and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5E.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets Interest rate caps not designated as hedges 0.9 1.3 Foreign currency forward contracts designated as net investment hedges 9.7 6.2 10.6 7.5 Non-current liabilities Zero cost foreign currency options designated as net investment hedges 2.3 Interest rate cross-currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 7.8 10.1 0.5 7.5 The Group has entered into interest rate cap contracts with notional amounts of 218.6 million FY 2014: 233.3 million on Sterling-denominated debt and 227.5 million 167.7 million FY 2014: 179.4 million or 140.4 million on Euro-denominated debt.
The caps are used to hedge the exposure to the variable interest rate payments on mortgage borrowings.
The Group has also entered into foreign currency forward contracts and zero cost foreign currency options with notional amounts of 310.0 million 240.1 million to hedge its net investment in Euro operations.
The Group also entered into a cross-currency swap with a notional amount of 210.8 million 150.0 million to convert a portion of the proceeds from its 300.0 million debut senior unsecured bond into Euro.
The fixed-to-fixed swap arrangement effectively reduced the coupon on the 300.0 million 3.95%, 7year unsecured bond to 3.35%.
A. Valuation process All derivatives are initially measured at fair value at the date the derivative is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value Note 5E.
Foreign currency forward contracts, zero premium foreign currency options and cross-currency swaps are designated as net investment hedges of the investment in foreign operations.
Foreign currency forward contracts, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency zero premium options have been highly effective with no ineffectiveness recorded.
Therefore movements in their fair value with the exception of the time value of zero premium options are recognised directly in OCI rather than the income statement and offset the impact of retranslating the related foreign currency subsidiary balance sheet at appropriate closing rates at each reporting date, as required by IAS21.
In line with IAS 39 movements in the fair value of zero premium foreign exchange options are recognised directly in profit or loss.
The fair values of the Groups outstanding derivative contracts have been estimated by calculating the present value of the future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates.
This valuation technique falls within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5E.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 27.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management The accounting policy applicable to financial instruments is set out in Note 3P and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5.
Accounting classifications and fair values The following table shows the book values and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Fair value through the Fair value Other Carrying profit and hedging financial value Fair value loss instruments liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Loans secured by real estate 179.2 179.2 179.2 179.2 Derivative financial assets 10.6 10.6 0.9 9.7 10.6 Total financial assets disclosed at fair value 189.8 189.8 180.1 9.7 10.6 179.2 Borrowings 1,414.3 1,421.4 1,421.4 589.4 832.0 Derivative financial liabilities 10.1 10.1 10.1 10.1 Total financial liabilities disclosed at fair value 1,424.4 1,431.5 10.1 1,421.4 599.5 832.0 Fair value through the Fair value Other Carrying profit and hedging financial value Fair value loss instruments liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Loans secured by real estate 211.0 211.0 211.0 211.0 Derivative financial assets 7.5 7.5 1.3 6.2 7.5 Total financial assets disclosed at fair value 218.5 218.5 212.3 6.2 7.5 211.0 Borrowings 545.9 545.9 545.9 545.9 Total financial liabilities disclosed at fair value 545.9 545.9 545.9 545.9 B.
Measurement of fair values The fair value of rent and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables approximate their carrying value and they are carried at amortised cost.
C. Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk credit risk liquidity risk and development risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
There have been no changes in any risk management policies since 31 December 2014. i.
Risk management framework The Investment Manager and the Audit Committee oversee the management of these risks.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee oversees how the Investment Manager monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
130 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information ii.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair values of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, due to interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other price risks.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising returns.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows or fair value of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk whereas borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities within the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates, as set out in Note 25H.
The risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, and interest rate caps which it agrees to receive at specified intervals, the difference between variable rate interest amounts and the capped interest rate by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount, as well as cross-currency swaps.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite: ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied by either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
At 31 December 2015, after taking into account the effect of interest rate caps and the cross-currency swap, 64% of the Groups floating rate borrowings were hedged FY 2014: 67%.
In managing interest rate risk the Group aims to reduce the impact of short term fluctuations on the Groups earnings, without jeopardising its flexibility.
Over the longer term, changes in interest rates may have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both non-derivative and derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date and represents managements assessment of possible changes in interest rates.
For the floating rate liabilities the analysis has been prepared assuming that the amount of the liability at 31 December 2015 was outstanding for the entire year.
The sensitivity has been calculated by applying the interest rate change to the variable rate borrowings, net of interest-rate caps and cash and cash equivalents.
Impact on profit Impact on net asset value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Increase of 100bps 3.7 1.1 3.7 1.1 Decrease of 100bps 1.9 1.1 1.9 1.1 1 Increase of 200bps 7.1 n a 7.1 n a 1 Decrease of 200bps 1.9 n a 1.9 n a Footnote: 1.
Sensitivity was not prepared at 31 December 2014.
No comparative is presented The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
These balances attract low interest rates and therefore a relative increase or decrease in their respective interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or loss.
Foreign currency risk The Group has operations in Europe which transact business denominated mostly in Euro.
There is currency exposure caused by translating the local trading performance and local net assets into Pound Sterling for each financial period and at each reporting date.
The Group does not have foreign currency trading with cross border flows.
The Group hedges a majority of its foreign currency assets naturally by funding them with borrowings in Euro and aims to ensure that it has no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency.
Profit translation is not hedged.
There are no other significant foreign currency risks impacting the Group.
The Groups net investment translation exposure including the impact of derivative financial instruments is summarised below: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Gross foreign currency assets 1,129.7 568.5 Gross foreign currency liabilities 944.0 501.7 Net exposure 185.7 66.8 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued Gross currency liabilities include the nominal amount of 383.9 million FY 2014: 164.8 million of foreign exchange derivatives designated as net investment hedges.
The Group has entered into a number of foreign exchange contracts including forward contracts, options and a cross-currency swap to sell 520.8 million FY 2014: 196.0 million and buy Pound Sterling.
The sensitivity below has been determined based on the exposure to foreign exchange rates for derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date and represents managements assessment of possible changes to the fair value of the Groups crosscurrency swaps as a result of possible changes in foreign exchange rates: Impact on profit Impact on net asset value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m 100bps strengthening in exchange spot rate 0.1 0.7 100bps weakening in exchange spot rate 0.1 0.7 1 200bps strengthening in exchange spot rate 0.3 n a n a 1 200bps weakening in exchange spot rate 0.3 n a n a Footnote: 1.
Sensitivity noted was not prepared at 31 December 2014.
No comparative is presented iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risks from both its leasing activities and financing activities, including deposits with banks, and derivatives.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial asset.
Rent and other receivables Credit risk is managed by requiring tenants to pay rentals in advance.
A credit assessment is carried out prior to the inception of a lease with a new counterparty and is used to determine the size of the deposit required from that tenant at inception.
Rent collection is outsourced to managing agents who report regularly on payment performance.
The Group has a diverse portfolio and there is no concentration of credit risk within the lease portfolio to any business sector or individual company.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has circa 550 tenants excluding residential tenancies in 277 commercial assets FY 2014: 358 tenants in 82properties.
As at 31 December 2015, the ten largest single tenants will generate approximately 28.8% of annualised rent FY2014: 32.6%.
As such the credit risk attributable to individual tenants is low.
Rent receivables which include unpaid rent were approximately 0.3% of total assets at 31 December 2015 FY 2014: 0.4%.
Outstanding tenants receivables are regularly monitored.
The directors are of the view that the credit risk associated with unpaid rent is low owing to the long-term nature and diversity of the Groups tenancy arrangements.
Arrears are monitored regularly, and discussed at least monthly by the Investment Manager Groups internal property management team and a strategy for dealing with significant potential defaults is presented on a timely basis by the property managers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of rent, trade and other receivables.
An analysis of the movements in the impairment of receivables is set out in Note 21B ii.
The Groups debtor recovery is consistently high and as such is deemed a low risk area.
The maximum exposure to credit risk of tenant and other receivables by geographic region at each balance date was as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 7.5 2.5 Ireland 1.3 2.0 Spain 0.2 9.0 4.5 b.
Cash and cash equivalents Credit risk from balances with banks is managed by the Investment Manager Group in accordance with the Investment Policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made to avoid undue concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through  failure.
Cash deposits are held with investment grade rated banks which are rated Ba1 to A1, based on Moodys ratings.
The Groups exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored by the Investment Manager Group throughout the period.
132 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information c. Loan secured by real estate Interest income is accreted to the profit or loss using the effective interest rate method.
The security underlying these loans includes five fire control centres in the United Kingdom, certain hotel assets in the United Kingdom, together with certain commercial buildings, retail premises and residential assets in the Republic of Ireland.
Loans secured by real estate are carried at fair value.
See further details in Note 18A.
d. Derivatives The derivatives are entered into with bank and financial institution counterparties, which are rated Baa1 to A1, based on Moodysratings.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meets its financial obligations as they fall due.
Prudent liquidity management implies maintaining sufficient cash, the availability of funding through adequate amounts of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Groups policy is to seek to minimise its exposure to liquidity risk by managing its exposure to interest rate risk and to refinancing risk.
The Group seeks to borrow for as long as possible at the lowest cost.
The Groups approach to monitoring its liquidity includes daily cash flow review and forecasting, and monthly monitoring of the maturity profile of debt, by the Investment Manager.
This is also reviewed each quarter by the Board.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank deposits, borrowings and bond financing.
A key factor in ensuring existing facilities remain available to the Group is the borrowing entitys ability to meet the relevant facilitys financial covenants.
The Group has a process to monitor regularly both current and projected compliance with its financial covenants.
Revolving credit facility The Group maintains a 225.0 million multi-currency RCF.
For any portion of the facility utilised in Euro, the interest rate is calculated by reference to EURIBOR plus a margin, and or Pound Sterling, the interest rate is calculated by reference to LIBOR plus a margin.
The applicable margin ranges between 160bps and 260bps, depending on the value of certain financial covenants measured at the time of draw down.
At 31 December 2015 and as at the date of these consolidated financial statements the RCF remains undrawn.
b. EMTN Programme On 5 November 2015 the Group announced the establishment of a 2.0 billion EMTN Programme.
The table below summarises the contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables existing at the balance sheet date.
Contracted cash flows are based on the loan balances and applicable interest rates payable on these at year end.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued v. Development risk The Group has been active in property development and is therefore exposed to certain development risks.
Development risks relate to the construction of investment properties.
The main risks are commercial, financial, technical and procedural.
Examples of commercial and financial risks are letting risks and risks connected with foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
To mitigate commercial and financial risks, before any project is started a detailed analysis of the market conditions is performed and the situation is monitored during the whole construction process.
Technical risks include, for example, design risks, construction risks and environmental risks.
Procedural and technical risks are also mitigated by detailed analysis.
Furthermore the Group uses the Investment Manager Group and external professionals to deal with procedural actions, project design, project management, construction and other associated matters.
Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and as such it aims to maintain a prudent mix between borrowings and equity financing.
The Groups capital structure comprises equity attributable to shareholders of the Company Note 28, borrowings Note 25 and cash and cash equivalents Note 22.
Equity comprises issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Borrowings comprise term loan facilities, revolving credit facility and unsecured bonds.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Save for the currently undrawn RCF, the unsecured bond issued in June 2015 and the Notes issued in November 2015, borrowings are secured on specific portfolios and are non-recourse to the Group as a whole.
During the year, the Group did not breach any of its loan covenants, nor did it default on any other of its obligations under its facility agreements.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Board monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Dividends are approved by the Board on an interim basis.
Net debt 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Borrowings Note 25 1,414.3 545.9 Add: Adjustments Unamortised borrowing costs Note 25 21.8 7.6 1,436.1 553.5 Cash at bank and cash equivalents Note 22 326.5 441.9 Net debt excluding unamortised borrowing costs 1,109.6 111.6 Net debt including unamortised borrowing costs 1,087.8 104.0 b.
Property portfolio 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Investment and development property Note 17 2,554.3 1,219.7 Loans secured by real estate Note 18 179.2 211.0 Property, plant and equipment Note 19 59.2 59.7 Total property portfolio 2,792.7 1,490.4 c. Loan to value 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Total property portfolio 2,792.7 1,490.4 Net debt excluding unamortised borrowing costs 1,109.6 111.6 LTV % calculated excluding unamortised borrowing costs 39.7 7.5 Net debt including unamortised borrowing costs 1,087.8 104.0 LTV % calculated including unamortised borrowing costs 38.9 7.0 134 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 28.
Stated capital The accounting policy applicable to stated capital is set out in Note 3R.
A. Authorised share capital Ordinary shares Number Authorised Ordinary shares Unlimited Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Shares in issue at 1 January 2015 135,283,293 Ordinary shares issued on 26 February 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ended 31 December 2014 163,478 Ordinary shares issued on 7 May 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ended 31 March 2015 155,201 Ordinary shares issued on 6 August 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ended 30 June 2015 165,947 Ordinary shares issued on 5 November 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ended 30 September 2015 166,019 At 31 December 2015 135,933,938 m As at 1 January 2015 1,314.9 Ordinary shares issued to partially settle investment management fee 7.3 At 31 December 2015 1,322.2 The Company has unlimited authorised share capital of no par value.
The issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares rank equally.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Number of shares in issue Number of Weighted average shares number of shares Period ended 31 December 2014 Shares issued on incorporation 2 2 Ordinary shares issued on 28 February 2014 91,000,000 74,654,155 Ordinary shares issued on 5 March 2014 9,100,000 7,343,432 Ordinary shares issued on 31 March 2014 to partially settle investment management fee for the quarter ending 31 March 2014 9,005 6,639 Ordinary shares issued on 6 August 2014 to partially settle investment management fee for the quarter ending 30 June 2014 116,208 71,656 Ordinary shares issued on 8 October 2014 in connection with a firm placing of ordinary shares 9,982,431 2,248,054 Ordinary shares issued on 22 October 2014 in connection with a placing and open offer of ordinary shares 24,956,079 4,683,446 Ordinary shares issued on 6 November 2014 to partially settle investment management fee for the quarter ending 30 September 2014 119,568 44,237 Number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2014 135,283,293 Approximate number of ordinary shares to be issued in February 2015 to partially settle investment management fee for the quarter ending 31 December 2014 163,478 20,161 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the period ended 31 December 2014 n a 89,071,782 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued Number of Weighted average shares number of shares Year ended 31 December 2015 Number of shares in issue at 1 January 2015 135,283,293 135,283,293 Ordinary shares issued on 26 February 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 31 December 2014 163,478 137,949 Ordinary shares issued on 7 May 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 31 March 2015 155,201 101,200 Ordinary shares issued on 6 August 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 30 June 2015 165,947 66,379 Ordinary shares issued on 5 November 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 30 September 2015 166,019 25,017 Number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2015 135,933,938 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the year ending 31 December 2015 n a 135,613,838 29.
Dividends The accounting policy applicable to dividends is set out in Note 3I.
Period from Year incorporation ending to Date of 31 December 31 December 1 Per share dividend payment of 2015 2014 amount dividend m m Interim dividend 2 pence 29 August 2014 2.0 Interim dividend 4 pence 28 November 2014 5.4 Interim dividend 7 pence 20 March 2015 9.5 Interim dividend 8 pence 29 May 2015 10.8 Interim dividend 10 pence 28 August 2015 13.6 Interim dividend 10 pence 27 November 2015 13.6 47.5 7.4 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 On 25 February 2016, the Board proposed an interim dividend of 12 pence per share, resulting in a total dividend of 16.3 million.
It will be paid on 31 March 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 March 2016.
This interim dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements as it was declared after year end.
Reserves The accounting policies applicable to reserves are set out in Notes 3C i ii, Note 3K and Note 3Q.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as the effective portion of any foreign currency differences arising from hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
B. Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation of land and buildings.
C. Share-based payment reserve The share-based payment reserve comprises the value of rights in respect of share-based payment arrangements relating to certain investment management fees Note 31A i.
The share-based payment reserve also comprises the value of rights in respect of the performance fee arrangements determined in accordance with the investment management agreement Note 31A ii.
136 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 31.
Parent and ultimate controlling party The Companys parent and ultimate controlling party is Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. KWI.
This is by virtue of the Investment Manager, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of KWI, acting as investment manager to the Company in accordance with the terms of the investment management agreement between the Investment Manager and the Company, and the Investment Manager being entitled to receive certain management and performance fees.
In addition, KWI through its subsidiaries holds 24,675,597 shares in the Company at 31 December 2015. i.
Investment management fee Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Investment management fee settled in cash 9.6 4.2 Investment management fee settled in shares 5.6 4.2 15.2 8.4 Number of shares issued to settle investment management fee 650,645 244,781 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 The Investment Manager, pursuant to the terms of an investment management agreement with the Company, is entitled to receive an investment management fee from the Company at an annual rate of 1.0% of the EPRA NAV of the Company, payable quarterly in arrears.
The investment management fee is payable 50% in cash and the remaining 50% through the issuance of new ordinary shares in the Company to the value of that 50% fee portion, unless: to the extent restricted by law or regulation in which case it is payable in cash or the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the 20 days prior to the invoice date for the relevant fee is lower than the last reported NAV per ordinary share in which case the investment management fee is to be settled insofar as possible by the purchase of ordinary shares in the market at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share, up to an aggregate amount equal to the cash equivalent of that 50% fee portion.
The investment management fees were as follows: On 25 February 2015, the Company issued 163,478 shares to the Investment Manager in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 December 2014.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price was the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for this fee being 10.57 per share.
The total share-based consideration equated to 1.7 million.
In addition, a cash payment in the amount of 1.7 million was paid to the Investment Manager in settlement of the investment management fee.
The total investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 December 2014 was 3.4 million.
On 7 May 2015, the Company issued 155,201 shares to the Investment Manager in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 March 2015.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price was the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for this fee being 11.15 per share.
The total investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 March 2015 was 3.4 million.
On 6 August 2015, the Company issued 165,947 shares to the Investment Manager in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 30 June 2015.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price was the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for this fee being 11.38 per share.
The total share-based consideration equated to 1.9 million.
In addition, a cash payment in the amount of 1.9 million was paid to the Investment Manager in settlement of the investment management fee.
The total investment management fee for the quarter ended 30 June 2015 was 3.8 million.
On 5 November 2015, the Company issued 166,019 shares to the Investment Manager in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 30 September 2015.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price was the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for this fee being 11.48 per share.
The total investment management fee for the quarter ended 30 September 2015 was 3.8 million.
For the quarter ended 31 December 2015, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totals 4.1 million.
Of this amount 1.9 million was paid on 31 December 2015.
The remaining 2.2 million will be satisfied by the Company through a cash payment of circa 0.1 million, and the share-based payment of 2.1 million is expected to be satisfied insofar as possible by the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share.
The Investment Manager has also paid certain expenses on behalf of the Company and the Company has reimbursed the Investment Manager in the amount of 0.7 million.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued ii.
Performance fee Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Performance fee 29.7 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 The performance fee is payable to the Investment Manager.
It is a form of remuneration used to reward the Investment Manager for generating returns to shareholders.
The return to shareholders in an accounting period is the increase in the EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus the total dividends and other distributions that are declared in the accounting period adjusted to exclude the effects of any issuance of ordinary shares during that accounting period Shareholder Return.
The performance fee is calculated annually on a per ordinary share basis as 20% of the lesser of performance above two hurdles, as follows: The excess of Shareholder Return over a 10% annual hurdle rate.
The annual return hurdle resets annually to 10% of the sum of the previous accounting periods EPRA NAV per ordinary share and The excess of the year end EPRA NAV per ordinary share which is adjusted to include total dividends declared or other distributions in the accounting period and adjusted to exclude the effects of any issuance of ordinary shares during that accounting period over the relevant high water mark.
The relevant high water mark in each accounting period is the greater of the closing EPRA NAV per ordinary share achieved in the reference period which is the most recent accounting period in which a performance fee was payable adjusted for total dividends or other distributions paid per ordinary share and adjusted to exclude the effects of any issue of ordinary shares during the reference period, and the gross opening NAV being the gross cash and non-cash proceeds of the initial issue plus further cash and non-cash issues of ordinary shares excluding any issues of ordinary shares in part settlement of the investment management fee or the performance fee, calculated on a per ordinary share basis as at the end of the accounting period in respect of which the performance fee is calculated.
The performance fee is payable either through the issuance of new ordinary shares in the Company to the value of the performance fee or by the purchase of shares in the market at a price no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share for delivery to the Investment Manager for an aggregate amount equal to the cash equivalent value of the performance fee.
To the extent that payment of the performance fee in ordinary shares is restricted by law or regulation, it is payable in cash.
Where the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the 20 days prior to the payment date for the performance fee is higher than the last reported NAV per ordinary share, the performance fee is settled through the issue of new ordinary shares, the number of which is determined by dividing the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee by the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for the performance fee.
In this circumstance, it is accounted for as a charge against income but as it is settled in shares it has no impact on the net assets of the Group.
Where the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the 20 days prior to the payment date for the performance fee is below the last reported NAV per ordinary share, the performance fee is settled insofar as possible by applying an amount equal to the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee to the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share for delivery to the Investment Manager and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share.
On the basis that the average closing share price of the Companys ordinary shares for the 20 days immediately prior to the invoice date for the 2015 performance fee is below the last reported NAV per share, the 2015 performance fee will be settled insofar as possible by the purchase of ordinary shares in the market for the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee being 29.7 million, at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share.
138 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The ordinary shares delivered pursuant to the performance fee arrangements are subject to a lock-up period as follows: One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 12 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 24 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares and One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 36 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares.
Further on 25 February 2016, the Company and the Investment Manager entered into an amendment agreement relating to the investment management agreement, pursuant to which the parties agreed that the performance fee will be delivered to the Investment Manager instead of the Carried Interest Partner and there shall be no restrictions on transfers as described above on any ordinary shares being transferred from the Investment Manager to other member s of the KW Group as defined in the investment management agreement provided the transferee agrees to be bound by the transfer restrictions in the investment management agreement as above and if at any point in time during which the lock-up restrictions remain in place the transferee ceases to be a member of the KW Group, it shall transfer those Ordinary Shares to the Investment Manager or to another member of the KW Group who will be subject to the same restrictions.
Transactions with key management personnel i.
Amounts paid to key management personnel a.
Directors fees The directors of the Company received total fees for the year as follows: Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 Charlotte Valeur 145,000 147,682 William McMorrow Mark McNicholas 100,000 101,849 Simon Radford 100,000 93,082 Mary Ricks 345,000 342,613 Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 Pursuant to the terms of the investment management agreement between the Investment Manager and the Company, each of William McMorrow and Mary Ricks has waived his her fees as Directors of the Company.
Investment management fee The Investment Manager is considered to be included within the definition of key management personnel.
The total Investment Management fee for the year ended 31 December 2015 is 15.2 million FY 2014: 8.4 million, details of which are set out in Note 31A i. c. Performance fee The Investment Manager, as noted above is considered to be included within the definition of key management personnel.
The total performance fee which the Investment Manager is entitled to is 29.7 million FY 2014: nil, details of which are set out in Note 31A ii.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued d. Total amounts payable The total amount paid to key management personnel is: Period from Year incorporation ended to 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Directors fees 0.3 0.3 Investment management fee 15.2 8.4 Performance fee 29.7 Costs reimbursed 0.7 45.9 8.7 ii.
Interests in share capital of the Company The directors interests in the shares of the Company are detailed below: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Charlotte Valeur William McMorrow 80,916 80,916 Mark McNicholas Simon Radford Mary Ricks 120,916 80,916 201,832 161,832 There has been no change in the directors interests in the shares of the Company as at the date of these consolidated financialstatements.
Dividends paid on ordinary shares in the Company held by directors totalled approximately 61,000 during the year ended 31 December 2015 FY 2014: 12,000.
C. Other related parties There were no transactions with other related parties.
Share-based payments The accounting policy applicable to share-based payments is set out in Note 3Q.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: A. Part-settlement of Investment Management fee As described in Note 31A i, the Investment Manager is entitled to receive, pursuant to the terms of an investment management agreement with the Company, a management fee from the Company at an annual rate of 1.0% of the EPRA NAV of the Company, payable quarterly in arrears.
The investment management fee is payable 50% in cash and the remaining 50% through the issuance of ordinary shares in the Company.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price for the shares issued to settle the portion of the investment management fee which is payable 50% in shares, is the average closing share price for the 20 days immediately prior to the issue date of those shares.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Investment Management fee payable to the Investment Manager totals 15.2 million, of which 9.6 million was paid in cash and 5.6 million will be settled in ordinary shares in the Company.
Performance fee As described in Note 31A ii, the Company will pay an annual performance fee calculated with reference to total shareholder return.
The fee is the lesser of 20% of a the excess over an annualised annual return hurdle of 10% or b the excess of year end EPRA NAV per ordinary share over the relevant High Water Mark being the closing EPRA NAV per Ordinary Share.
140 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 33.
Group entities The accounting policy applicable to group entities is set out in Note 3A i.
Except where indicated the following are indirect subsidiaries of the Company.
All the Companys direct and indirect interests are in ordinary shares.
Except as noted, all are wholly owned property investment companies and are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Incorporated and registered in Gatsby Capital 1 Ltd Incorporated and registered in Jersey Gatsby Capital 2 Ltd Luxembourg Bizet Ltd Gatsby Capital 3 Ltd KW Real Estate Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Argyle Ltd Gatsby Chatham Ltd KW Investment One Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Friars Ltd Gatsby Croydon Ltd KW Investment Two Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Holdco Ltd Gatsby GIR Ltd KW Investment Three Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Hull Limited Gatsby GR Ltd KW Investment Four Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Marathon Ltd Gatsby Grocery Ltd KW Investment Five Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Pennine Ltd Gatsby Industrial Ltd KW Investment Six Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Rubislaw Ltd Gatsby INV 1 Ltd KW Investment Seven Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Seafield Ltd Gatsby Middlewich Ltd Liquidated on 21 September 2015 Jupiter Showroom Ltd Gatsby PFS Ltd KW Investment Eight Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Tradeco Ltd Gatsby PH Ltd KW Investment Nine Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Trident Ltd Gatsby Retail Ltd KW Investment Ten Lux S.. r. l. KW Artemis UK Properties HoldCo Ltd Gatsby Saltash Ltd KW Investment Eleven Lux S.. r. l. KW BPR Ltd KW Gatsby Ltd KW Investment Twelve Lux S.. r. l. KW High Street Retail B Ltd KW Italy Investments Holdco Ltd KW Investment Thirteen Lux S.. r. l. KW Industrial B Ltd KW Olimpia Holdco Ltd Liquidated on 21 September 2015 KW Industrial SPV 1 Ltd Portfolio Reading UK Limited in KW Industrial SPV 2 Ltd dissolution Incorporated and registered in KW Office SPV 1 Ltd SEO Bartley Wood Limited England or Scotland formerly KW Dionysus Ltd SEO Bracknell Limited St Andrews Bay Development Ltd KW Office SPV 2 Ltd formerly KW SEO Farnborough Limited KW Pioneer Point UK OpCo Limited Agamemnon Ltd SEO Finance Limited KW Office SPV 3 Ltd SEO Harlow Limited Incorporated and registered in Spain KW Niobe Ltd SEO Langley Limited Alemina Investments, S. L. KW Regional Office B Ltd SEO Maidenhead Limited KW Spanish Holdco, SL formerly ESPEBE KW Retail SPV 1 Ltd SEO Reading Limited 8, SL KW Retail SPV 2 Ltd SEO Stockley Limited KW LMG Propco 1, SL formerly Crumbie Ltd SEO Watford Limited KW LMG Propco 2, SL KW Retail Warehouse SPV 1 Ltd KW Pioneer Point Limited KW Sol Propco, SL formerly ESPEBE 10, KW Trade Co Ltd SL formerly Bengal Ltd Incorporated and registered in KW Velazquez Propco 1, SL KW UK Assets Holdco Ltd Republic of Ireland KW Velazquez Propco 2, SL KWVF Tiger Ltd Cavalli Investments ICAV formerly Cavalli Leterana Servicios Y Gestiones, SL Nessun Ltd Investments PLC Parque Comercial Guadalhorce, SL Scarlatti Ltd KW Investment Funds ICAV formerly KW Triviata Ltd Investment Funds PLC Incorporated and registered in the Gatsby Aberdeen Ltd KW Portmarnock Ops Ltd Isle of Man Kish One Limited Directly owned 90% owned by the Group 34.
Investment management fee On 25 February 2016 the Company approved the payment of the investment management fee of 4.1 million for the quarter ended 31 December 2015, payable to the Investment Manager.
See further details in Note 31A i.
Performance fee On 25 February 2016 the Company approved the payment of the performance fee of 29.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2015 to the Investment Manager.
See further details in Note 31A ii.
C. Disposals On 15 January 2016 the administrator appointed to the Avon portfolio within which there are loans secured by real estate exchanged contracts for the sale of the underlying collateral for consideration of 100.3 million, before costs.
This transaction completed on 21 January 2016.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 35.
Capital expenditure commitments On 28 November 2014, the Group through its wholly-owned subsidiary KW Investment Funds ICAV for the sole account of its sub-fund KW Investment Fund III entered into a design and build contract in connection with the development of Central Park, Leopardstown, Dublin, Ireland.
At 31 December 2015 the estimated amount of authorised and contracted commitments which have not been provided for in respect of future purchases, construction and redevelopment of investment property totals 66.1 million.
The estimated amount of authorised but uncontracted expenditure totals 14.9 million.
Development guarantee On 9 February 2015, the Group through a wholly-owned subsidiary, together with an unrelated party, entered into a bond with a local authority in the amount of 0.4 million 0.5 million in order to secure performance of the development of the residential tower known as Block K, Central Park, Leopardstown, Dublin, in accordance with the terms of a conditional planning permission.
C. Commitments in connection with 2016 acquisitions In addition, the Group had capital commitments of 53.3 million in respect of the acquisition of two properties in Ireland.
Refundable deposits totalling 1.7 million are included in Rent and other receivables.
D. Sale and purchase agreements On 29 December 2015 the Group, via one of its wholly-owned subsidiary companies acquired 100% of the share capital of Parque Comercial Guadalhorce SL, which owns an asset in Madrid.
The initial purchase price was dictated by the mechanics of the sale and purchase agreement for that entity.
Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, no consideration is payable at the date of acquisition in relation to any future benefit of these losses.
However, should these losses be utilised by the Group in the future, consideration amounting to 60% of the benefit to the Group shall be payable to the vendor.
Operating lease arrangements The Group has determined that all tenant leases are operating leases within the meaning of IAS 17.
The Group earns rental income by leasing its investment properties to tenants under non-cancellable operating leases.
Typically, single let properties are leased on terms where the tenant is responsible for repair, insurance and running costs while multi-let properties are leased on terms which include recovery of a share of service charge expenditure and insurance.
The Group also let tenancies on terms which include a turnover-based element of 0.1 million FY 2014: 0.1 million.
At the reporting date, the Group had contracted with tenants to receive the following future minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Not later than one year 135.2 70.0 Later than one year but not more than five years 413.4 216.8 Later than five years but not more than ten years 257.1 150.9 More than ten years 175.2 805.7 612.9 In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland standard commercial leases vary considerably between markets and locations, but are typically for a term of five to 15 years at market rent with provisions to review every five years.
The weighted average unexpired lease term at 31 December 2015 based on the lease expiry date was 7.3 years FY 2014: 7.7 years.
Residential property is typically leased for periods of one year or less.
Minimum lease rentals from residential property are not included in the table above.
The largest single tenant at year end accounted for 10.2 million or 6.7% of the annualised rental income at 31 December 2015 FY 2014: 5.8 million or 6.4% of annualised rental income, respectively.
The unoccupied property expressed as a percentage of estimated total rental value was 4.0% at 31 December 2015 FY 2014: 9.1%.
Assets held-for-sale The accounting policy applicable to assets held-for-sale is set out in Note 3N.
Details of the accounting policies applicable to investment and development property are set out in Note 3J, whilst fair value disclosures are set out in Note 5A, as well as Note 17.
The Group has identified certain of its investment properties as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5.
The carrying value of such assets was 51.0 million FY 2014: nil at the balance sheet date.
142 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 38.
Employee benefit expense The accounting policy applicable to employee benefit expense is set out in Note 3E.
Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m Aggregate remuneration of employees comprises: Wages and salaries 6.1 3.0 Social security costs 0.5 0.3 Other pension costs 0.1 Other employment cost 0.1 6.8 3.3 2 Average number of employees 377 357 Footnotes: 1.
2014 number is the average number over a 12-month period to 31 December 2014 Details of directors emoluments are set out in Note 31B.
All employees are employed by subsidiaries of the Group within the hotel operations segment.
Auditors remuneration The remuneration of KPMG, the Groups auditor is disclosed below: Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 m m 2 Audit services Audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2 Audit of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 Audit related services 2 Review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1 3 4 Capital markets transactions 0.1 0.8 0.2 0.9 Fees for other services 5 Tax advisory services 0.4 0.8 5 Transaction advisory services 0.2 0.1 2 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.7 0.9 1.3 2.1 Footnotes: 1.
Costs associated with these items are typically expensed through the income statement in the period in which the expense is incurred 3.
Costs associated with equity fundraisings are typically applied against the Stated Capital balance in the consolidated balance sheet.
For further information refer to Note 28 4.
Costs associated with debt transactions are typically capitalised into borrowing costs and amortised over the period of the associated debt.
For further information refer to Note 25 5.
Costs associated with these items may, depending on the nature of the transaction for which services are being provided, either be expensed during the period that a cost is incurred, or capitalised into the underlying cost base of the associated asset Details of the Groups policy on the use of its auditors for other services, the reason the audit firm was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group continues to monitor the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditor and fees charged for other services.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 40.
Re-presentation of 2014 income statement expenses During 2015, being the first full year of trading of the Group since its initial public offering on 28 February 2014, the Directors together with the Investment Manager completed a review of the cost base of the Group.
The results of this review, together with feedback from shareholders and various other users of the consolidated financial statements have caused the Directors to reconsider the presentation of the consolidated income statement for 2015 and future periods.
As such, the Directors have concluded that the consolidated income statement should be modified to present expenses by function rather than nature.
An explanation of how the transition of the presentation of expenses from function to nature has affected the 2014 comparatives in the consolidated income statement is set out in the following table: Expenses by nature Expenses by function Investment Property Administrative management related Hotel cost expenses fee expenses of sales m m m m m Service charge expense 5.0 5.0 Employee benefit expense 3.3 1.7 1.6 Depreciation 0.7 0.7 Purchase of consumables for sale 1.1 1.1 Professional fees 5.6 2.7 2.7 0.2 Acquisition related expenses 3.6 3.6 Directors fees 0.3 0.3 Other expenses 7.6 6.3 0.6 0.7 Investment management fee 8.4 8.4 35.6 14.6 8.4 8.3 4.3 41.
Approval of the annual financial statements These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Companys Board of Directors on 25 February 2016.
144 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Additional information 146 Principal properties 147 Portfolio statistics and EPRA disclosures 150 Investment policy 152 Additional disclosures 153 Directors, advisors and Company information 154 Shareholder information 154 Financial calendar 155 Definitions and glossary Discovery Place, Farnborough, UK Part of the South East office portfolio, acquired in July 2015 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 145 1 Principal properties unaudited Value band Primary Approx.
area 2 Address m sector sq ft UK 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London 200 O 227,200 3 Pioneer Point, Ilford, London 50 100 PRS 153,400 Friars Bridge Court, South Bank, London 50 100 O 97,600 Building 1, 2 & 3, Leavesden Park, Watford 25 50 O 196,300 Discovery Place, Summit Avenue, Farnborough 25 50 O 141,900 Seafield House, Aberdeen 25 50 O 202,500 Rubislaw House, Aberdeen 25 50 O 101,700 Argyle House, Edinburgh 25 50 O 220,400 Norfolk House, Hotel Office, Croydon 25 50 L 155,400 Fairmont Hotel & Golf, St. Andrews 25 50 H Trident Retail & Leisure Park, Runcorn 25 50 R 216,200 Travelodge Hotel, Grays Inn Road, London 25 50 L 65,000 Pennine Centre, Sheffield 25 50 O 234,900 Midpoint, Cheshire, Middlewich 25 50 I 374,000 Edinburgh Gate, Edinburgh Way, Harlow 25 50 O 141,200 UK Total 2,527,700 Ireland 40-42 Mespil Road, Dublin 50 100 O 118,000 Blocks A B C D, Russell Court, Saint Stephens Green, Dublin 50 100 O 138,800 Stillorgan shopping centre, Co. Dublin 50 100 R 142,100 Vantage, Central Park, Dublin 50 100 PRS 260,000 Baggot Plaza, Dublin 50 100 O 129,300 South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin 25 50 O 62,200 Gardner House, Dublin 25 50 O 75,600 Marshes Shopping Centre, Dundalk 25 50 R 136,400 The Times Building, Dublin 25 50 O 73,400 Block K, Vantage, Central Park, Dublin 25 50 PRS 166,700 Ireland Total 1,302,500 Spain La Moraleja shopping centre, Madrid 50 100 R 303,800 Puerta del Sol 9, Madrid 25 50 R 36,800 Spain Total 340,600 Italy Via Carcani, 61, Rome 25 50 O 174,000 Via Valtellina, 1, Milan 25 50 O 283,400 Italy Total 457,400 Europe TOTAL 4,628,200 Footnotes: 1.
Excludes loans secured by real estate 2.
O Office, R Retail, I Industrial, PRS Private rented sector residential, H Hotel, L Leisure 3.
Area excludes vacant south tower 146 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
