Independent auditors report to the members of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related accounting policies and notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of a material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we considered areas where the directors were required to make subjective judgments and assumptions and to consider future events that are inherently uncertain.
We also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias in those judgments that created a risk of misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those that we deemed to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and our report is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the consolidated financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our group audit was the valuation of the investment property portfolio 2,792.7 million 2014: 1,489.0 million : i The risks The valuation of the Groups investment properties and loans secured by real estate involves significant management judgments particularly those relating to current and expected market conditions.
In recent times, macroeconomic conditions in Europe have been characterized by lower growth and inflation expectations, accommodative monetary policies by central banks and generally lower interest rates, all of which have provided a supportive backdrop for many real estate investments.
Local market conditions also have a great bearing on real estate valuations and can differ significantly across markets, property types and over time.
For development properties, additional subjective factors include projections of the amount and timing of the costs required to complete a project.
To assist in determining the value of the Groups portfolio, the directors engaged external valuers, CBRE, Colliers and Duff & Phelps Ltd. the Valuers.
The Directors estimates of the value of the portfolio were developed using the advice and input of the Valuers.
Unreasonable or outdated inputs used in these judgments, such as those in respect to estimated rental value or yield, could result in material misstatement of the income statement and balance sheet.
There is also a risk that management could influence these judgments to report valuations that assist in meeting market expectations or performance targets.
ii How our audit work addressed these risks Among other procedures: We read the valuation reports for all properties and confirmed that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Valuation Professional Standards RICS and suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
We assessed the qualifications, independence and objectivity of the Valuers by reviewing their terms of engagement, fee arrangements, and the existence of any potential conflicts created if they had advised on a transaction that they were subsequently valuing.
We obtained confirmation from the Valuers that they had not been subject to influence from management and we found no evidence to suggest their objectivity was compromised.
We held several discussions with the Valuers to understand their view of market dynamics, the valuation techniques used, the performance of the portfolio, and the significant assumptions including future expected rental income and likely yields.
We included a Chartered Surveyor on our team who considered the Valuers qualifications and together, we discussed with the Valuers the valuation approaches and assumptions.
We considered the yield assumptions used in performing the valuations to assess their reasonableness in comparison to relevant market evidence, benchmarking expected rental values and yields against comparables and other external data.
We performed substantive analytical procedures by reference to external market data to evaluate the appropriateness of the valuations adopted by the Group, and investigated further the valuation of those properties that were outside of our expectations.
We conducted site visits on major properties to corroborate certain details of the external valuation reports.
We evaluated whether sufficient disclosures were provided in relation to risks inherent in the asset valuations.
82 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit We apply a concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, and also in evaluating the effects of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
In considering whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, we consider the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a knowledgeable member, relying on the financial statements, would be altered or influenced.
We then use this materiality to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole to an appropriately low level.
The materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole was set at 30 million 2014: 19 million, or 1% of total assets.
Because real estate investments represent almost 88% of total assets, we consider total assets to be one of the principal measurements for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
For account balances not related to the investment property portfolio, we applied materiality of 7.4 million, or 2.75% of pre-tax profit, as we believe a misstatement of amounts less than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence a members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 1.5 million 2014: 0.95 million, in respect of investment property, loans secured by real estate and property, plant and equipment, as well as those with a value in excess of 0.37 million 2014: 0.3 million for other account balances.
We also agreed to report other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The structure of the Groups finance function is such that transactions and balances are accounted for by a central group finance team.
We performed audit procedures, including those in relation to the risks set out above, on those transactions and balances accounted for at group level.
Our audits covered 100% of total consolidated revenue, 100% of consolidated profit before tax and 100% of consolidated total assets.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The Directors statement on page 59 concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in operation over the three year period to 2019: or The disclosures in the Directors statement on page 59 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified any inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: or The report from the audit committee does not appropriately disclose those matters that we communicated to the audit committee.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority require us to review: The Directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern: The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 58 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Certain elements of remuneration disclosures in the report to shareholders by the directors.
Our conclusions on other matters on which we are required to report by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 are set out below We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 which requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: Returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Independent auditors report to the members of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc continued Basis of our report, responsibilities and restrictions on use As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
While an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather, the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Michael Gibbons for and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland 25 February 2016 84 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Consolidated income statement Period from incorporation Year ended to 31 December 31 December 1 2015 2014 Re-presented Notes m m Revenue Rental income 7 138.8 51.4 Hotel revenue 10 20.0 8.4 Interest income from loans secured by real estate 13 13.4 6.6 172.2 66.4 Property related expenses 8 22.7 8.3 Hotel cost of sales 11 14.4 4.3 37.1 12.6 Gross profit 135.1 53.8 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 9 14.6 0.4 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 17 208.0 49.3 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 18 5.1 6.0 Other gains 0.8 Gain on purchase of a business 1.8 363.6 111.3 Expenses Administrative expenses 12 15.9 14.6 Investment management fee 31A i 15.2 8.4 Performance fee 31A ii 29.7 60.8 23.0 Results from operating activities before financing income and costs 302.8 88.3 Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 13 0.6 1.3 Finance costs 14 36.8 9.2 Net finance expense 36.2 7.9 Profit before taxation 266.6 80.4 Taxation 15 7.6 1.9 Profit for the year after taxation 259.0 78.5 Earnings per share basic and diluted 16A 191.0p 88.0p Footnote: 1.
Date of incorporation was 23 December 2013 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
On behalf of the Board Simon Radford Mark McNicholas Director Director Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
