Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information 3 Changes in accounting policies Ladbrokes plc the Company is a public limited company From 1 January 2015 the Group has applied, for the first time, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose certain standards, interpretations and amendments.
These shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
include Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle and The address of its registered office and principal place of 2011-2013 Cycle and Defined Benefit Plans: Employee business is disclosed in the corporate information section of Contribution Amendments to IAS 19. the Annual Report.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on The consolidated financial statements of the Company and the current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 future periods.
December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with 4 Summary of significant accounting policies a resolution of the directors on 22 February 2016.
Basis of consolidation The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial are set out in note 5. statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The 2 Basis of preparation underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been accounting policies.
Control is achieved where the Company is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC with the investee and has the ability to affect these returns pronouncements as adopted for use in the European Union and through its power over the investee.
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out in this section as All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses detailed have been applied consistently year on year.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the acquisition method of cost convention unless otherwise stated.
The statements are accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the also prepared on a going concern basis.
Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities currency.
All values are in millions m rounded to one decimal of a subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of place except where otherwise indicated.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group recognised as goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are has defined the following items of pre-tax income and expense made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the as exceptional in nature: accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
profits or losses on disposal, closure or impairment of nonCritical accounting estimates and judgements current assets or businesses: The preparation of financial information requires the use of unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments: assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
corporate transaction costs: Use of available information and application of judgement are changes in the fair value of contingent consideration: and inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future the related tax effect of these items.
may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the accounting policies where judgement is Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for necessarily applied are those that relate to: the measurement classification as exceptional by virtue of their nature and size.
and impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: The separate disclosure of these items allows a clearer the measurement and accounting for business combinations: understanding of the trading performance on a consistent and the measurement of pension and other post-employment benefit comparable basis, together with an understanding of the effect obligations: the determination of the initial fair value of betting of non-recurring or large individual transactions upon the overall and gaming transactions: the recoverable amount of trade profitability of the Group.
receivables: income tax and the valuation of financial guarantee The exceptional items have been included within the appropriate contracts.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are classifications in the consolidated income statement.
Further reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting details are given in note 6. estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 85 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies Betting and gaming transactions continued Betting and gaming transactions are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the This is normally the nominal amount of the consideration but future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set on certain occasions, the fair value is estimated using valuation out below.
techniques, taking into account the credit profile of customers Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in determining the collectability of the consideration.
In addition, The Group has determined that betting shop licences have where there are indicators that any trade receivable is impaired indefinite lives see note 13 for further details.
at the balance sheet date, management makes an estimate of The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life the assets recoverable amount.
Further details are given in intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash Income tax generating units to which the goodwill and intangible assets The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions.
Estimating a value in use amount requires Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for management to make an estimate of the expected future cash income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax flows from each cash generating unit and also to choose a that may be payable, and in respect of determining the level suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of of the future taxable profits of the Group that support the those cash flows.
Further details are given in notes 13 and 14. recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Further Business combinations details are given in note 10.
The Group applies judgement in determining whether a Provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions are established transaction is a business combination, which includes on an individual rather than portfolio basis, considering whether, consideration as to whether the Group has acquired a business in each circumstance, the Group considers it more likely than or a group of assets.
not that the uncertainty will crystalise.
For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of Financial guarantee contracts the consideration transferred, which includes assumptions about The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related the future business performance of the business acquired and indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default an appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the contingent consideration.
Judgement is also applied in counterparties.
Further details are given in note 25. determining whether any future payments should be classified as contingent consideration or as remuneration for future services.
Investments in joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any and one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
These estimates also require inputs and assumptions including future earnings, Management has assessed whether it has joint control of the customer attrition rates and discount rates.
Joint control exists only when decisions about the engages external experts to support the valuation process, relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties where appropriate.
that collectively control the arrangement.
In assessing this joint control no significant judgements have been necessary.
The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the updated inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial Group consolidated income statement using the equity method forecasts for the relevant business.
Judgement is applied as to of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the whether changes should be applied at the acquisition date or as Group consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition post-acquisition changes.
Further details of these judgements changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any are given in note 33.
Fair value movements and the unwinding impairment in value.
The carrying value of investments in joint of the discounting is recognised within operating expenses.
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postexceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Further discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary details are given in note 16. increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 30.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 86 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com Investments in associates A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a longassets is as follows: term interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the Customer Domain Licences Software relationships Brand names financial and operational policies but does not have control or Useful lives indefinite finite finite finite finite joint control over those policies.
Method used not 2-5 1-15.5 3-10 10 depreciated years straight years years straight years The Groups share of results of associates is included in the or revalued line straight line line straight line Groups consolidated income statement using the equity Internally acquired acquired and acquired acquired acquired method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried generated or internally acquired generated in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus postImpairment annually and useful lives where an where an where an acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the testing where an reviewed at indicator of indicator of indicator of recoverable indicator of each financial impairment impairment impairment entity less any impairment in value.
The carrying value of amount impairment year end exists exists exists investments in associates includes acquired goodwill.
Further testing exists details are given in note 17.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, with any gain Goodwill or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
interest in the net fair value of the separately identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate Property, plant and equipment at the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Combinations, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and as such, is stated at cost less any provision depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is for impairment of value.
Any impairment is recognised calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of immediately in the consolidated income statement and is not each asset to its residual value over its useful economic life as follows: Buildings 50 years or estimated useful life of the subsequently reversed.
On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment building, or lease, whichever is less, to estimated residual value.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and Fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or impairment annually as to whether there are events or changes loss on disposal of the operation.
in circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not Intangible assets be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, those acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised the assets or cash generating units are written down to their separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured recoverable amount.
The costs relating to internally The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of generated intangible assets, principally software costs, are fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value capitalised if the criteria for recognition as assets are met.
Other in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their expenditure is charged in the year in which the expenditure is present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are market assessments of the time value of money and the risks carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely accumulated impairment losses.
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where amortisation is charged on Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the consolidated statement in the depreciation and amounts written off nonincome statement through the depreciation, amortisation and current assets line item.
amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Useful lives An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised are reviewed on an annual basis.
upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying impairment annually at the cash generating unit level.
amount of the item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 87 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise continued derivative financial instruments.
Financial assets through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value with transaction costs Leases taken directly to the consolidated income statement.
Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and and rewards associated with ownership of the leased item losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the Available for sale financial assets comprise equity investments minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned that are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability fair value through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining are measured initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the fair values balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly are remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in the against income.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter Financial liabilities of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, interest bearing loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, anteLeases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and post bets, guarantees and derivative financial instruments.
On risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are plus transaction costs where they are not categorised as recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial on a straight line basis over the lease term.
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include contingent Recoverable amount of non-current assets consideration, derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any and guarantees.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of Trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and include impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the amounts due to clients representing customer deposits and recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset winnings, which is offset by an equal and opposite amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered within cash and cash equivalents.
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset directly to the consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the fair values are remeasured and gains and losses from those from other assets or groups of assets.
changes therein are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than at fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
three months and customer balances, net of outstanding bank After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings overdrafts.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties to the contracts that give rise to them.
in respect of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
Financial The Group classifies financial assets at inception as loans and guarantee contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the available-for-sale financial assets.
guarantees being called upon and the related cash outflows Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with from the Group.
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities market.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash measured at fair value net of transaction costs.
Subsequently, flows from the assets has expired or when the Group has the fair values are measured at amortised cost, using the transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from effective interest method, less any allowance for impairment.
the financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party, The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis and either: and where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have of the assets recoverable amount.
been transferred: or substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 88 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com Derivative financial instruments The following exchange rates were used in 2014 and 2015: The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross 2015 2014 Currency Average Year end Average Year end currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate Euro 1.37 1.36 1.25 1.28 swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and Australian Dollar $ 2.03 2.03 1.83 1.90 foreign currency fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The gains Income tax Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all or losses on remeasurement are taken to the consolidated income statement.
temporary differences at the balance sheet date, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where financial reporting purposes.
their fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same differences: counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not Provisions a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable differences can be controlled and it is probable that the estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will is material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market be available against which the deductible temporary differences assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a can be utilised: finance expense.
except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible Foreign currency translation temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business the functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither Sterling.
the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that foreign currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of the deductible temporary differences will reverse in the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the fair or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates The main functional currencies of overseas subsidiaries is the that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised Euro and the Australian Dollar $.
At the reporting date, the or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the sheet date.
balance sheet date and their income statements are translated Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
at the average exchange rates for the year.
The post-tax Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken tax are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a consolidated income statement.
The impact of the change in foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the current year is described in note 10. equity relating to that particular foreign entity is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 89 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies Treasury shares continued Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups amount of sales tax except: own equity instruments.
where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and ESOP trusts services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost trusts these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
of acquisition of the asset or as Any consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale part of the expense item as applicable: and of these shares is shown in the reconciliation of movements receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales in shareholders funds and no gain or loss is recognised tax included.
within the consolidated income statement or the statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the cancellation of these shares.
taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the consolidated balance sheet.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid Pensions and other post-employment benefits at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements The Groups defined benefit pension plan, the Ladbrokes until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual Pension Plan holds assets separately from the Group.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
pension cost relating to this plan is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the Revenue projected unit credit method.
The Group reports the gains and losses on all betting and gaming activities as revenue, which is measured at the fair value Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated of the consideration received or receivable from customers less statement of comprehensive income in the period in which free bets, promotions, bonuses and other fair value adjustments.
Gross win includes free bets, promotions and bonuses.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Core Telephone that the benefits have already vested and otherwise is amortised Betting, mobile betting, High Rollers, Digital businesses on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits including sportsbook, betting exchange, casino, games, other vest.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance number bets, revenue represents gains and losses, being the sheet represents the fair value of scheme assets less the value amounts staked and fees received, less total payouts.
Open of the defined benefit obligations as adjusted for unrecognised betting positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses past service cost.
arising on these positions are recognised in revenue.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to rake earned from poker games completed by the year end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income In accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension plan, it is arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the year, necessary for management to make a number of estimates and including sales of refreshments, net of VAT.
These include the discount rates, future changes to salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life Finance expense and income expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial management considers advice provided by external advisers, instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate estimates, actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that equity.
Refer to note 30 for details of the values of assets and are an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial obligations and key assumptions used.
instrument, including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other differences between the amount initially recognised and Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be the redemption price.
All finance expenses are recognised over utilised during the life of the plan to address member benefits, the availability period.
the Group recognises its pension surplus in full on the basis that it does not consider there to be substantive restrictions on the return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member obligations have been met.
The related tax is accounted on an income basis.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 90 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com Net gains and losses in respect of mark to market adjustments was issued in July 2015.
IFRS 9 retains and establishes three on financial instruments carried at fair value, foreign exchange primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised adjustments and net gains and losses on financial guarantees cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L.
The are included in exceptional items in the consolidated income basis of the classification depends on the business model and statement.
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured Share-based payment transactions at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at Certain employees including directors of the Group receive inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39.
For financial for shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
liabilities there were no changes to classification and The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference measurement except for the recognition of changes in own to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Further credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities details of which are given in note 31.
In valuing equity settled designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The standard is transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 2018.
The Group is yet to assess Ladbrokes plc market conditions.
The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised in the IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit in revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are useful information to users of financial statements about the fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative flows arising from an entity's contracts with customers.
IFRS 15 expense recognised for equity settled transactions at each will only impact revenue that is it not governed by IAS 39. reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and in the opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard on the best available estimate of the number of equity replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts instruments, will ultimately vest.
The standard is effective for annual No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market adoption is permitted.
The Group is assessing the impact of condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether IFRS 15. or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other IFRS 16, Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, performance conditions are satisfied.
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
The The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per information in a manner that faithfully represents those share as shown in note 12. transactions.
IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an for virtually all lease contracts.
This information gives a basis for employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases options to executives and senior employees.
have on the financial position, financial performance and cash Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are flows of the entity.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual as a deduction from equity.
Refer to consolidated statement of periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier changes in equity.
adoption is permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15 at or before Future accounting developments the date of initial application of IFRS 16.
The Group is assessing The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet the impact of IFRS 16. effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial IFRS 9, 15 and 16 are yet to be EU endorsed.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the on the Group.
following set out below: IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 91 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Segment information The Groups operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors who are collectively considered to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker to make strategic decisions, and allocate resources.
The performance of the Groups segments is assessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources, and the Groups operating segments are aggregated into the five reportable segments detailed below: UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain.
European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Ireland Northern and Republic of, Belgium and Spain JV shop estates.
Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations which includes Ladbrokes.
com, Ladbrokes Australia, Betdaq, Belgium online and Spain JV online.
Core Telephone Betting: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone, excluding High Rollers.
High Rollers: comprises activities primarily relating to bets taken on the telephone from High Rollers.
The Board continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, profit before tax and net finance expenses.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of exceptional items income or expenditure from the operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Core UK European Telephone High Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2015 m m m m m m Segment revenue 827.4 119.8 242.8 5.5 4.0 1,199.5 Segment profit loss before exceptional items 116.1 14.5 23.8 2.2 3.3 107.9 Exceptional items note 6 27.5 49.9 3.7 0.2 81.3 Segment profit loss 88.6 35.4 27.5 2.4 3.3 26.6 1 Corporate costs 42.0 Profit before tax and net finance expense 15.4 Net finance expense 27.8 Profit before tax 43.2 Income tax credit 48.3 Profit for the year 5.1 Other disclosures: 2 Share of results from joint venture and associates 4.3 1.0 0.9 4.4 2 Depreciation and amortisation 37.6 7.1 31.2 0.3 76.2 2 Capital expenditure 37.0 8.7 28.8 74.5 1 Corporate costs include exceptional items.
2 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.4 million loss, 1.2 million, and 1.2 million, respectively.
UK Core Telephone High Retail European Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2014 m m m m m m Segment revenue 811.5 122.1 215.1 10.2 15.7 1,174.6 Segment profit loss before exceptional items 119.3 13.0 14.0 2.0 14.2 162.5 Exceptional items note 6 41.4 6.9 29.4 77.7 Segment profit loss 77.9 6.1 15.4 2.0 14.2 84.8 1 Corporate costs 18.6 Profit before tax and net finance expense 66.2 Net finance expense 28.5 Profit before tax 37.7 Income tax expense 3.3 Profit for the year 41.0 Other disclosures: 2 Share of results from joint venture and associates 1.2 0.1 1.7 0.4 2 Depreciation and amortisation 39.3 7.7 29.5 0.4 76.9 2 Capital expenditure 20.0 6.9 31.9 0.2 59.0 1 Corporate costs include exceptional items.
2 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.2 million profit, 0.8 million, and 0.7 million, respectively.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 92 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 5 Segment information continued Geographical information Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows: 2015 2014 Non-current Non-current 1 1 Revenue assets Revenue assets m m m m United Kingdom 1,030.7 716.7 998.3 785.8 Rest of the world 168.8 179.7 176.3 177.9 Total 1,199.5 896.4 1,174.6 963.7 1 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
6 Exceptional items 2015 2014 m m 1 Impairment loss 58.3 44.5 2 Loss on closure 19.8 30.7 3 Corporate transaction costs 17.6 0.5 4 Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 0.2 3.1 5 European indirect tax liability 3.5 5.7 6 Examinership costs 3.8 7 Early termination of contract 3.1 Exceptional finance income charge 0.3 1.1 Digital exit costs 3.8 Net pension curtailment gain 4.8 Profit on sale and leaseback 3.9 Total before tax 99.0 74.5 Exceptional tax credit 13.3 8.9 Exceptional items after taxation 85.7 65.6 1 Impairment loss of 58.3 million comprises a 51.8 million impairment of shop licences, impairment of 1.4 million of shop assets and a 5.1 million asset impairment of which 4.9 million relates to software.
The total 53.2 million shop impairment has arisen as a result of the annual licence impairment review and includes a 13.5 million charge in UK Retail and a 39.7 million charge in European Retail Ireland.
The 5.1 million asset impairment relates to assets no longer in use.
2 The 19.8 million loss on closure includes a 13.4 million loss on closure of UK Retail shops and a 6.4 million loss on closure of European Retail shops.
These include a loss on disposal of intangible assets of 7.8 million, a loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 5.3 million and cost accruals of 6.7 million.
3 The Group incurred corporate transaction costs of 17.6 million in relation to the proposed merger with the Coral Group.
4 The fair value of the contingent consideration in respect of the business combinations with Playtech and Betdaq has been remeasured at 31 December 2015.
This resulted in an overall charge to the income statement of 0.2 million.
5 At 31 December 2014 a provision was made for a liability arising from European indirect tax changes.
A subsequent settlement has been agreed which has resulted in an exceptional credit of 3.5 million.
6 Legal and redundancy costs of 3.8m in relation to the Examinership in Republic of Ireland.
7 Early settlement of a contractual agreement with an affiliate in Australia.
Operating expenses include corporate transaction costs, the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration, the provision for gaming European indirect tax liability, Examinership costs, the early termination of contract and 6.7 million of costs relating to the shop closures.
In addition to the defined exceptional items set out in note 2 the Group considered the credits arising on the reversal of the provision for European indirect tax liability, Examinership costs and early termination of contract to be of sufficient materiality to be separately identified and of a nature unrelated to the underlying trading performance of the Group in the year.
The cash flow effect of the exceptional items was an outflow of 25.1 million in the year.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 93 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items has been arrived at after charging: 2015 2014 m m Gross profits tax, Betting tax and Machine Games Duty 183.6 160.0 Point of consumption tax 28.1 2.1 Salaries and payroll-related expenses note 9 284.3 278.4 Property expenses 131.3 137.1 Content and levy expenses 124.3 125.7 Marketing expenses 103.8 82.4 Software and geographical partners 23.4 18.5 Other operating expenses 163.4 152.9 Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation 1,042.2 957.1 Fees payable to  LLP were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Audit and audit-related services: Audit of the parent Company and Group financial statements 0.4 0.3 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.2 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.7 0.6 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 0.1 1 Corporate finance services 1.6 Other non audit services 0.3 0.5 2.0 0.5 Total fees 2.7 1.1 1 Fees for corporate finance services relate to due diligence and investment circular work in connection with the proposed merger with certain businesses of the Coral group.
8 Finance expense and income 2015 2014 m m Bank loans and overdrafts 1.4 3.3 Bonds at amortised cost 23.1 20.6 Finance charges payable under finance leases 0.2 Fee expenses 3.5 3.6 Total finance expense 28.2 27.5 Interest receivable 0.1 0.1 Total finance income 0.1 0.1 Net finance expense before exceptional items 28.1 27.4 Exceptional finance expense 0.1 1.1 Exceptional finance income 0.4 Net finance expense after exceptional items 27.8 28.5 98 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 94 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 9 Staff costs The average weekly number of employees including executive directors was: 2015 2014 Number Number UK Retail 11,955 11,823 European Retail 1,276 1,404 Digital 766 696 Telephone Betting 134 123 Central services 100 95 14,231 14,141 The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2015 was 14,340 2014: 13,954.
2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 256.3 251.1 Social security costs 20.1 20.2 Pension costs note 30 3.8 4.3 Share-based payments note 31 4.1 2.8 284.3 278.4 In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Eligibility for benefits is normally determined primarily according to an employees length of service and level of responsibility.
The amounts of some benefits are proportionate to individual salary.
Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits.
The latter can cover private healthcare for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover.
Company cars, including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are: i Pensions Ladbrokes Pension Scheme LPS Under the auto-enrolment legislation, employees meeting the statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the LPS, a defined contribution scheme.
The contributions paid by the Group and employees meet those statutorily required.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to match their contributions up to specified limits.
For the majority of employees the maximum match is 6% of base salary.
The maximum match is higher for some employees, depending upon grade and pensionable service.
Ladbrokes Pension Plan LPP This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and closed to benefit built up from 31 August 2015, at which date all active members were offered membership of the LPS.
Members contributed on average six per cent of pensionable salary per annum executives contributed on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Calculated to 31 August 2015, members and Executive Section members received deferred pension benefits including contingent death benefits under the LPP based on their service, accrual rates and Final Pensionable Salary linked to their pension histories.
Benefit generally accrued to provide a target pension of half for joiners before June 2002: two thirds of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining age 65 with at least 40 years membership.
A spouses pension is payable following death.
See note 30 for further details.
LPP Executive Section Members contribute on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit accrued to provide a target pension from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years membership for joiners before June 2002, employees attaining age 60 with at least 20 years service.
A spouses and childrens pensions are payable following death.
LPP incorporated an Earnings Cap on Pensionable Salary.
Executive directors and senior executives, for whom this applies, had a choice between: i membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in excess of the Earnings Cap: or ii a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
ii Share-based payments Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 71 that forms part of the Annual Report 2015.
Details of options granted in 2015 and outstanding at 31 December 2015 are shown in note 31.
Details of directors remuneration can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 63.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 95 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense Analysis of credit charge for the year: 2015 2014 m m Current income tax: UK 0.7 8.7 overseas 0.5 2.2 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 35.6 13.4 Deferred tax: relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.5 3.8 tax rate reduction 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 7.0 3.0 Income tax credit reported in the income statement 48.3 3.3 Deferred tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income 0.6 2.7 A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Loss profit before tax 43.2 37.7 Corporation tax credit charge thereon at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 8.7 8.1 Adjusted for the effects of: Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 8.3 0.7 Recognition of tax losses 8.1 10.4 Non-deductible expenses 3.7 3.6 Non-deductible expenses included in exceptional items 6.8 7.0 Tax rate reduction 7.0 Other 0.7 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years Resolution of historical tax matters and utilisation of previously unrecognised losses against 1 profits of previous years 29.3 9.4 Adjustment of deferred tax in respect of previous years 7.0 3.0 2 Overseas current tax adjustments 4.3 1 Other prior year movements 2.0 4.0 Income tax credit 48.3 3.3 Reported as: credit expense in consolidated income statement before exceptional items 35.0 5.6 credit in consolidated income statement tax on exceptional items note 6 13.3 8.9 Income tax credit 48.3 3.3 1 The 2015 prior year adjustment arises from a decision to recognise the offset of historic losses.
This, together with the recognition of current year losses and other movements has resulted in a c40 million tax receivable.
The greater part of this will be received in 2016.
2 This relates to a reassessment of a provision.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 96 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 10 Income tax expense continued Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet income statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.1 Licences 47.4 61.1 13.7 4.9 1 Fair value adjustments on acquisitions 6.6 9.2 2.4 5.2 1 Retirement benefit asset 13.7 13.8 0.7 2.9 Deferred tax liabilities 68.1 84.4 Deferred tax assets Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 10.2 3.7 6.5 3.7 Losses 3.6 13.6 10.0 Share-based payments 1.2 2.4 1.2 0.4 Other temporary differences 1.1 0.6 0.5 Deferred tax assets 16.1 20.3 Deferred tax credit 12.5 0.8 Amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet: Deferred tax liabilities 52.7 64.1 Deferred tax assets 0.7 Net deferred tax liability 52.0 64.1 1 The movement in the deferred tax liabilities in relation to the fair value adjustments on acquisitions and the retirement benefit asset include a 0.2 million movement in relation to foreign exchange and a 0.6 million movement charged directly to other comprehensive income, respectively.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had 33.6 million 2014: 76.5 million of unrecognised deferred tax assets, relating to losses, the utilisation of which is not likely at the current time.
This is because the losses are within loss making holding companies which are not anticipated to make future profits.
There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries.
The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014.
This was further reduced to 20% from 1 April 2015.
Accordingly, the Companys profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 20.25%.
It was also announced that the standard rate of UK Corporation Tax will be reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017, with a further reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 18%.
Although the reduction to 18% is effective from 1 April 2020, this was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
11 Dividends 2015 2014 Pence per share pence pence Interim dividend paid 1.0 4.3 Final dividend proposed 2.0 4.6 3.0 8.9 A final dividend of 2.0 pence 2014: 4.6 pence per share, amounting to 20.4 million 2014: 42.1 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 was declared by the directors on 22 February 2016.
The total amount payable in respect of the final dividend is based on the expected number of shares in issue on 24 March 2016.
The 2015 interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share 10.2 million was paid on 12 November 2015.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 97 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company of 5.1 million 2014: 41.0 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 966.4 million 2014: 921.4 million.
1 3 At 31 December 2015, there were 1,018.3 million 28 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 1,050.0 million 1 3 including treasury shares.
At 31 December 2014, 922.9 million 28 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 954.6 million including treasury shares.
At 31 December 2015, 6.2 million 2014: 5.8 million shares were deemed anti-dilutive for the purpose of calculating adjusted earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items is included as it provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in note 6.
2015 2014 Profit from operations and Group m m Profit attributable to shareholders 5.1 41.0 Exceptional items net of tax note 6 85.7 65.6 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 90.8 106.6 Weighted average number of shares millions 2015 2014 Shares for basic earnings per share 966.4 921.4 Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 5.8 2.5 Shares for diluted earnings per share 972.2 923.9 Before exceptional items After exceptional items Earnings per share pence 2015 2014 2015 2014 Basic earnings per share 9.4 11.6 0.5 4.4 Diluted earnings per share 9.3 11.5 0.5 4.4 102 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 98 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 13 Goodwill and intangible assets Customer relationships, brand and domain Goodwill Licences Software names Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 138.6 540.2 196.1 50.0 924.9 Exchange adjustment 3.5 3.3 0.1 1.3 8.0 Additions 11.3 0.4 42.9 54.6 Additions from business combinations 8.0 4.6 12.6 Disposals 12.8 12.8 Reclassifications 4.8 4.8 At 31 December 2014 159.2 519.7 239.1 53.3 971.3 Exchange adjustment 2.0 2.4 0.2 0.4 5.0 Additions 0.6 40.8 41.4 Disposals 12.3 0.6 12.9 Reclassifications 0.4 1.6 2.0 At 31 December 2015 157.2 505.2 277.5 52.9 992.8 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2014 54.1 91.1 9.0 154.2 Exchange adjustment 0.4 0.1 0.5 Amortisation charge 0.2 28.4 5.2 33.8 Impairment charge 18.7 23.1 41.8 At 31 December 2014 72.6 142.5 14.2 229.3 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5 Amortisation charge 0.2 32.4 5.2 37.8 Impairment charge 51.8 6.3 58.1 Disposals 3.6 3.2 6.8 Reclassifications 1.0 0.4 0.6 At 31 December 2015 121.8 177.4 19.3 318.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 159.2 447.1 96.6 39.1 742.0 At 31 December 2015 157.2 383.4 100.1 33.6 674.3 Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net assets of business combinations including the deferred tax liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions.
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
The acquired betting shop licences are not amortised as they are considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons: Ladbrokes is a leading operator in well-established markets: there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services: existing law acts to restrict entry: and Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software together with software acquired as part of business combinations.
The customer relationships intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisition of its former partner in the Nordic region, acquisitions in the prior years of Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty and Betstar Pty.
Brand and domain names intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisitions prior years of Betdaq, Gaming Investments Pty Ltd and Betstar Pty.
Refer to notes 6 and 14 for details of the impairment charge.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 99 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the group of CGUs and any goodwill allocated to that group of CGUs would be regarded as not impaired.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Goodwill UK Retail 35.4 35.4 European Retail 11.6 12.7 Digital 110.2 111.1 157.2 159.2 No impairments were identified in both years.
Licences Licences have been allocated to the individual UK and European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets.
Each CGU represents the lowest level within the Group at which the licences are monitored for internal management purposes which in the majority of instances is an individual shop.
Where the cash flows of one or more shops are not entirely independent, these are grouped to form a CGU.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2015 was 383.4 million 2014: 447.1 million allocated as 264.4 million to UK Retail 2014: 284.5 million and 119.0 million to European Retail 2014: 162.6 million.
Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on budgets approved by the Board for the next four years extrapolated thereafter using a 2% growth rate 2014: 1% for UK Retail and Digital and 1-2% growth rate for European Retail 2014: 1%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions taken into account by management are the net cash flows which are impacted by amounts staked and gross win margin and the discount rate applied.
The estimated amounts staked and gross win margin are based upon historic experience, managements best estimate of future trends and performance taking account of industry sources.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections for CGUs in UK Retail is 10.9% 2014: 10.8%, in European Retail is between 9.9% and 10.9% 2014: between 9.4% and 10.4% and in Digital is 8.5% 2014: 9.6%.
The recoverable amounts of certain individual UK Retail CGUs were below their carrying amounts at 31 December 2015 and accordingly an impairment loss of 21.1 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 26.8 million offset by impairment reversals of 7.6 million within the Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current assets line as an exceptional item.
In respect of European Retail shop licences there has been a charge of 40.2 million for year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 13.1 million offset by impairment reversals of 0.5 million 2014: 10.0 million.
The recoverable amount of individual CGUs is sensitive to changes in cash flows, growth rates or discount rate.
Change in the cash flow projections or the discount rate would trigger a further impairment loss.
For example, an increase of 0.5% in the pre-tax discount rate would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 3.9 million 2014: 7.9 million for UK Retail and 3.6 million 2014: 3.2 million for European Retail, or a reduction in projected cash flows of 5% would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 3.8 million 2014: 4 million for UK Retail and 4.4 million 2014: 3.3 million for European Retail.
An assumption of no growth after 2019 would have resulted in an increase in impairment loss of approximately 11.1 million for UK Retail and 9.5 million for European Retail.
For Digital, no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in an impairment.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 100 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 15 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 141.5 453.7 595.2 Exchange adjustment 1.0 3.5 4.5 Additions 2.8 13.6 16.4 Disposals 6.1 9.9 16.0 Reclassifications 3.2 3.2 At 31 December 2014 140.4 450.7 591.1 Exchange adjustment 0.8 3.5 4.3 Additions 3.2 31.1 34.3 Disposals 4.7 13.2 17.9 Reclassifications 3.8 1.8 2.0 At 31 December 2015 141.9 463.3 605.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2014 89.3 281.4 370.7 Exchange adjustment 0.5 2.3 2.8 Depreciation charge 12.0 31.9 43.9 Disposals 3.3 7.5 10.8 Impairment charge 1.0 1.7 2.7 At 31 December 2014 98.5 305.2 403.7 Exchange adjustment 0.6 2.1 2.7 Depreciation charge 10.2 29.4 39.6 Disposals 2.9 10.0 12.9 Impairment charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 105.3 322.0 427.3 Net book value At 31 December 2014 41.9 145.5 187.4 At 31 December 2015 36.6 141.3 177.9 At 31 December 2015, the Group had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of any property, plant and equipment 2014: nil.
Included within fixtures, fittings and equipment are assets in the course of construction, which are not being depreciated, of 2.4 million 2014: 3.9 million.
This comprises mainly shop refurbishment programmes in the UK.
Land and buildings includes an investment property with a net book value of 2.4 million 2014: 2.4 million.
Leased assets Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2015 2014 m m Cost 12.2 Accumulated depreciation 1.0 Net book value 11.2 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 101 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Interest in joint venture Share of joint ventures net assets m Cost At 1 January 2014 6.5 Exchange adjustment 0.1 Additions 4.1 Share of loss after tax 1.6 At 31 December 2014 9.1 Exchange adjustment 0.5 Additions 2.8 Share of profit after tax 0.1 At 31 December 2015 11.5 The joint venture is the Groups investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA, an online and retail gaming business in Spain, in which it holds a 50% equity interest note 33.
Summarised financial information in respect of the joint ventures net assets is set out below: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 30.0 24.4 Cash and cash equivalents 7.8 5.2 Other current assets 2.2 1.6 Current assets 10.0 6.8 Current financial liabilities Other current liabilities 16.8 12.8 Current liabilities 16.8 12.8 Non-current financial liabilities Other non-current liabilities 0.2 0.2 Non-current liabilities 0.2 0.2 Joint ventures net assets 23.0 18.2 Groups share of joint ventures net asset 50% 11.5 9.1 2015 2014 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue 54.6 35.2 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation 4.2 3.8 Other operating expenses 50.2 36.0 Finance expense Income tax expense 1.4 Profit loss for the year 0.2 3.2 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive profit loss 0.2 3.2 Groups share of the total comprehensive profit loss 0.1 1.6 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 102 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 17 Interest in associates and other investments Share of associates Other net assets investments Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 16.8 0.7 17.5 Share of profit after tax 1.4 1.4 Additions 0.3 0.3 Dividends received 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2014 17.0 1.0 18.0 Exchange adjustment Share of profit after tax 3.9 3.9 Share of other comprehensive loss 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 20.3 1.0 21.3 Associates Summarised financial information in respect of the associates is set out below: 2015 2014 m m Associates current assets 103.5 65.8 Associates non-current assets 53.7 77.7 Associates current liabilities 66.3 65.5 Associates non-current liabilities 2.8 5.3 Associates net assets 88.1 72.7 Groups share of associate net assets 20.3 17.0 2015 2014 m m Associates revenue for the year 230.9 234.4 Associates profit for the year 17.8 5.9 Associates other comprehensive income 2.5 0.3 Associates total comprehensive income 15.3 5.6 Groups share of associates total comprehensive income 3.3 1.4 Further details of the Groups associates are listed in note 33.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited SIS, an associate of the Group, is 31 March.
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015.
SIS is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Other investments Other investments of 1.0 million consist of investments in ordinary shares, which therefore have no fixed maturity rate or coupon rate.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 103 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 5.2 7.5 Other receivables 10.8 5.5 Prepayments 37.5 44.2 53.5 57.2 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers.
Impaired receivables, including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
At 31 December 2015, trade receivables with an initial fair value of 1.0 million 2014: 0.6 million were provided for in full.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 0.6 2.3 Increases in provision 0.6 Utilised 0.2 1.7 At 31 December 1.0 0.6 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 30 30-60 60-90 90 Total impaired days days days days m m m m m m 2015 5.2 3.1 0.1 2.0 2014 7.5 2.7 2.2 0.4 0.2 2.0 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash and short-term deposits 28.3 21.1 Customer funds 40.1 40.9 Bank overdraft 1.0 Total cash and cash equivalents 68.4 61.0 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or less, customer funds and overdrafts.
The customer funds are matched by liabilities of an equal value.
20 Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 48.4 52.7 1 Other payables 40.2 35.4 1 Other taxation and social security 70.3 43.4 Accruals 83.5 74.4 242.4 205.9 1 In 2015 other taxation and social security has been represented to include betting and gaming duty.
In 2014 this was included in other payables 30.8 million.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 104 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 21 Provisions Vacant property Other 1 provision provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2014 3.6 0.2 3.8 Provided 9.7 0.2 9.9 Utilised 2.3 2.3 Released At 31 December 2014 11.0 0.4 11.4 Provided 9.5 1.7 11.2 Utilised 3.6 3.6 Released 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2015 16.9 1.9 18.8 1 The periods of vacant property commitments range from one to 14 years 2014: one to 12 years.
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2015, 9.2 million 2014: 6.4 million is current and 9.6 million 2014: 5.0 million is non-current.
22 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Non-current Bank facilities 117.0 7.625% bonds due 2017 224.2 223.6 5.125% bonds due 2022 98.9 98.7 323.1 439.3 Committed bank facilities, which are denominated in Pounds Sterling, mature on 13 June 2019.
There were no drawings under these facilities at 31 December 2015 2014: 23.0 million expiring on 1 December 2016, 94.0 million expiring on 13 June 2019.
Drawings under these facilities had an average interest rate of 2.5% in 2015 2014: 2.4%.
55.0 million of committed bank facilities were cancelled in the year.
This leaves the total of 350.0 million of committed bank facilities 2014: 405.0 million at 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December 2015, the committed bank facilities maturities are 350.0 million 2014: 350.0 million on 13 June 2019 and nil 2014: 55.0 million on 1 December 2016.
The Group has total undrawn committed bank facilities of 346.8 million at 31 December 2015 2014: 283.0 million.
The Group had a nil 2014: 0.4 million overdraft denominated in Euros at 31 December 2015.
All of the Groups remaining borrowings in 2015 and 2014 were denominated in Pounds Sterling.
23 Lease liabilities Commitments in relation to finance leases are payable as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 4.9 Later than one year but not later than five years 4.8 Later than five years Minimum lease payments 9.7 Future finance charges 0.4 Total lease liabilities 9.3 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 105 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Lease liabilities continued The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 4.9 Later than one year but not later than five years 4.4 Later than five years Minimum lease payments 9.3 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
At 31 December 2015 and at 31 December 2014 the Group had no significant derivatives.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions.
The Groups exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2015 was to maintain a minimum of 25% 2014: 25% of total borrowings at fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2015, 323.1 million or 100% 2014: 322.3 million or 73.4% of the Groups gross borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is repriced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity 2015 2014 2015 2014 Effect on: m m m m 100 basis points increase 1.1 0.1 200 basis points increase 2.2 0.2 The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
Foreign currency risk Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The Group had no other foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2015 2014: 0.4 million overdraft denominated in Euros.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 106 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
The Groups High Rollers division consists of individuals who place sizeable stakes.
The Group manages this activity and the associated risk exposure by utilising senior management expertise to manage the levels of stakes placed.
Of the 5.2 million 2014: 7.5 million trade receivables balance, 1.9 million 2014: 3.2 million relates to the Groups Core Telephone Betting and High Rollers divisions.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 25.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2015, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 346.8 million 2014: 283.0 million.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 3.5 years 2014: 4.1 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows.
Cash flows in respect of financial guarantee contracts reflect the probability weighted cash flows.
The maximum exposure is described in note 25.
On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2015 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22.3 238.7 15.4 107.7 384.1 Other financial liabilities 2.1 0.4 47.3 6.3 56.1 Trade and other payables 242.0 242.0 Total 266.4 239.1 62.7 114.0 682.2 On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2014 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 26.1 48.1 349.3 112.8 536.3 Other financial liabilities 4.1 11.2 46.5 8.7 70.5 Trade and other payables 205.5 205.5 Total 235.7 59.3 395.8 121.5 812.3 Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit quality that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, adjusted borrowings, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio before exceptional items.
The target range is less than 2.0 2014: less than 2.0 times net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The ratio at 31 December 2015 was 1.9 times 1.9 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers and at 31 December 2014 was 1.9 times 2.1 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers.
The Groups funding policy is to raise funds centrally to meet the Groups anticipated requirements.
These are planned so as to mature at different stages in order to reduce refinancing risk.
The Board reviews the Groups capital structure and liquidity periodically.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 107 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Other financial liabilities 2015 2014 m m Contingent consideration 32.3 32.1 Financial guarantee contracts 3.2 4.8 Deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued 1.1 Other 0.1 5.6 35.6 43.6 Of the total other financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 nil 2014: 1.1 million is current and 35.6 million 2014: 42.5 million is non-current.
The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments into their relevant categories: Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through financial receivables cost profit loss assets Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 1.4 3.4 4.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 16.0 16.0 Derivatives 0.2 0.2 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 68.4 68.4 Total 85.8 0.2 3.4 89.4 Liabilities Current: Trade and other payables 236.7 5.3 242.0 Obligations under finance leases 4.9 4.9 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 323.1 323.1 Other financial liabilities 35.5 35.5 Obligations under finance leases 4.4 4.4 Total 569.1 40.8 609.9 Net financial assets liabilities 85.8 569.1 40.6 3.4 520.5 112 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 108 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale through financial Loans and amortised receivables cost profit loss assets Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 1.4 3.4 4.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 13.0 13.0 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 62.0 62.0 Total 76.4 3.4 79.8 Liabilities Current: Bank overdraft 1.0 1.0 Trade and other payables 200.2 5.3 205.5 Other financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 439.3 439.3 Other financial liabilities 5.6 36.9 42.5 Total 646.1 43.3 689.4 Net financial assets liabilities 76.4 646.1 43.3 3.4 609.6 Fair value of financial instruments Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value.
The fair value of cash at bank and in hand approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity.
The fair value of the 225 million 7.625% bond at 31 December 2015 was 239.7 million 2014: 244.3 million and is classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The fair value of the 100 million 5.125% bond at 31 December 2015 was 98.3 million 2014: 100.2 million and is classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The amortised cost of interest bearing loans and borrowings, with the exception of the 225 million 7.625% bond and the 100 million 5.125% bond, and the carrying value of all other assets and liabilities approximates to fair value.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after initial recognition at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014: 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Derivatives 0.2 0.2 Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Total 0.2 3.4 3.6 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante-post liabilities 5.3 5.3 Other non-current financial liabilities 35.5 35.5 Total 40.8 40.8 Net liabilities measured at fair value 0.2 37.4 37.2 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 109 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante post liabilities 5.3 5.3 Other current financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Other non-current financial liabilities 36.9 36.9 Total 43.3 43.3 Net liabilities measured at fair value 39.9 39.9 Included within other financial assets is the Groups investment in TBHG, a financial asset measured at initial fair value of 3.4 million on 28 February 2013 which was acquired in connection with the business combination with Betdaq.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2015.
Included in trade and other payables are 5.3 million of ante-post liabilities 2014: 5.3 million.
Ante post liabilities are valued using methods and inputs that are not based upon observable market data.
There are no reasonably probable changes to assumptions or inputs that would lead to material changes in the fair value determined, although the final value will be determined by future sporting results.
The principal assumptions relate to anticipated gross win margins on unsettled bets.
Included within other non-current financial liabilities is contingent consideration associated with business combinations of 32.3 million 2014: 32.1 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments, as its fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
The fair values are remeasured at each reporting date and gains and losses from changes therein are recorded in the consolidated income statement within exceptional items note 6.
Betdaq Betdaq contingent consideration is linked to the performance of the business over a four year period and is capped at 535.0 million.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the balance sheet date.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are the EBITDA projections of the Betdaq business for 2016, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2016 9.8x and the discount rate applied 13.5%.
All of these assumptions have been applied on a probability-weighted basis.
The contingent consideration is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 1.5 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of less than 0.1 million.
A decrease in the EBITDA multiple of 2x would result in a decrease in contingent consideration of 0.2 million.
Playtech The fair value of the contingent consideration in relation to Playtech has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the balance sheet date.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections of the Digital business for 2017, which are based on the projections in place at the time of the acquisition and then updated with an estimated uplift for the benefits of the transaction, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2017 9.8x : and the discount rate applied a range of 13.7% to 20.7%, depending on the year.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 12.6 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 1.3 million.
An increase of 1x in the EBITDA multiple would increase the contingent consideration by 3.5 million.
Other Also included within other non-current financial liabilities are financial guarantee contracts of 3.2 million 2014: 4.8 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 110 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Financial guarantee contracts The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC, at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees.
The guarantees expire between 2017 and 2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements.
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all years up to 2042 is 560.8 million 2014: 679.6 million, with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount.
Included in the maximum liability exposure is 402.1 million 2014: 434.8 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 158.7 million 2014: 244.8 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The maximum liability represents the total of all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2015 is 210.3 million 2014: 258.7 million.
Included in the net present value of the maximum exposure is 141.4 million 2014: 149.1 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 68.9 million 2014: 109.6 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants being identified.
At 31 December 2015 the Group has recognised a financial liability of 3.2 million 2014: 4.8 million in respect of these guarantees.
The liability has reduced in 2015 as a result of the Group being released from its obligations for one of its hotels, the liability of which was due to expire in 2029.
The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate.
The 1.6 million credit has been included within the Groups corporate costs.
The table below provides a breakdown of the movement in the liability since 1 January 2015: Liability m At 1 January 2015 4.8 Reduction due to release from one hotel guarantee 1.6 At 31 December 2015 3.2 A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by 1.0 million.
A 1.0 percentage point increase in the discount rate would reduce the financial liability by 0.2 million.
26 Net debt The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 2015 2014 Notes m m Current assets 1 Cash and short-term deposits 19 28.3 21.1 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 1.0 Current obligations under finance leases 23 4.9 Non-current liabilities Non-current obligations under finance leases 23 4.4 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 323.1 439.3 Net debt 304.1 419.2 1 Customer funds are not included in the Groups net debt.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 111 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Issued share capital Number of 28p Total ordinary shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 2014 951,165,221 269.5 During the year 3,460,108 1.0 At 31 December 2014 954,625,329 270.5 1, 2 Issued during the year 95,387,740 27.0 At 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 297.5 1 During the year, the following fully paid shares of 28 pence each were issued: 387,459 shares on allocation of shares under the 2010 Share Award Plan, 2,259,944 shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, 61,734 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, 299,923 shares under the OWN Plan.
2 In addition to the above, the Group completed a placing of 92,378,680 new ordinary shares at 125 pence each on 24 July 2015.
The net proceeds of the placing was 112.9 million consisting of the gross proceeds of 115.5 million net of the associated transactions costs of 2.6 million.
The net proceeds of the placing were allocated as 26.2 million to the share capital account and 86.7 million to the share premium account.
Number of 28p ordinary shares Shares issued at 31 December 2014 954,625,329 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2014 excluding treasury shares 922,864,761 Shares issued at 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2015 excluding treasury shares 1,018,252,501 28 Employee share ownership plans The Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust LSOT is used in connection with the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan together the Plans refer to note 31 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions.
The LSOT may also be used in connection with the Groups other share-based plans, including the 1978 and 1983 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme.
The trustee of the LSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, subscribes for the Groups shares or purchases them in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by the Group.
The Ladbrokes Share Incentive Plan LSIP is currently used in connection with the Groups OWN share plan the OWN plan and Freeshare share plan Freeshare refer to note 31 for further details.
The trustee of the LSIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using: i Deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan: and ii Dividends paid on the shares held by the LSIP.
Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Group to the LSIP for every one share purchased by the employee.
All expenses of the LSOT and LSIP are settled directly by the Group and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated movement in shareholders funds.
LSOT LSIP Total Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of held shares held shares held shares Number m Number m Number m 1 At 1 January 2015 7,661,052 10.4 865,143 0.4 8,526,195 10.8 Shares purchased allotted 600,000 0.6 486,021 0.3 1,086,021 0.9 Vested in year 3,882,972 4.3 305,734 0.3 4,188,706 4.6 At 31 December 2015 4,378,080 6.7 1,045,430 0.4 5,423,510 7.1 Market value of shares in trusts 5.2 1.3 6.5 1 Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Group in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees CI Limited under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 112 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 29 Notes to the statement of cash flows Reconciliation of profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2015 2014 m m Loss profit before tax and net finance expense 15.4 66.2 Adjustments for: Non cash exceptional items 74.2 65.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 39.6 43.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 37.8 33.8 Share based payments charge 4.1 2.8 Increase in other financial assets 3.8 1.3 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 3.4 3.7 Decrease in other financial liabilities 3.1 11.3 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 38.6 27.9 Decrease in provisions 1.4 Contributions to retirement benefit scheme 3.6 8.9 Share of results from joint venture 0.1 1.6 Share of results from associates 3.9 1.4 Other items 1.2 0.2 Cash generated by operations 165.2 159.0 Income taxes paid 2.3 2.1 Finance expense paid 26.7 26.4 Net cash generated from operating activities 136.2 130.5 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 113 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement of 3.8 million 2014: 3.1 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Defined benefit plans The Groups only significant defined benefit retirement plan is the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, which is a final salary pension plan for UK employees.
This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and closed to future accrual on 31 August 2015.
At retirement each members pension is related to their pensionable service and final pensionable salary.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Plan is around 17 years.
The Plans assets are held separately from those of the Group.
The Plan is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is managed by an independent set of Trustees.
The Plan is subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustees to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule at least every three years.
Under the current contribution schedule in place, the Group pays contributions to the Plan of 0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan and will pay 0.125 million each month from April 2016 to June 2017.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2013 were updated to 31 December 2015 by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19 Revised.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Present value of funded obligations 283.2 296.3 Fair value of plan assets 359.5 365.8 Net asset 76.3 69.5 Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 76.3 69.5 The Group has considered the appropriate accounting treatment in respect of the pension plan surplus, taking into account the current agreement with the Trustees to pay contributions into the Plan.
The Group has concluded that under current accounting rules recognition of the surplus as an asset is appropriate on the grounds that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at the end of the life of the Plan.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs Current service cost excluding employee element 1.6 2.8 Administrative expenses 1.0 1.0 Net interest on net asset 2.6 2.6 1 Pension curtailment gain 7.1 Total credit recognised in the income statement in staff costs 5.9 1 The pension curtailment gain was included within exceptional items in the income statement.
The actual return on plan assets over the year was a gain of 4.1 million 2014: gain of 48.2 million.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Actual return on assets less interest on plan assets 8.6 33.8 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit obligation due to changes in financial assumptions 8.6 30.6 Changes in demographic assumptions 3.9 Experience adjustments on benefit obligation 3.2 2.3 Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 1.6 118 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 114 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 30 Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 296.3 268.8 Current service cost excluding employee element 1.6 2.8 Employee contributions 0.5 0.7 Interest on obligation 10.1 11.8 Actuarial gains losses due to changes in financial assumptions 8.6 30.6 Changes in demographic assumptions 3.9 Experience adjustments on obligations 3.2 2.3 Benefits paid 13.5 12.7 Pension curtailment gain 7.3 At 31 December 283.2 296.3 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 365.8 321.9 Interest on plan assets 12.7 14.4 Administration expenses 1.0 1.0 Actual return less interest on plan assets 8.6 33.8 Contributions by the sponsoring companies 3.6 8.9 Employee contributions 0.5 0.7 Benefits paid 13.5 12.7 Running costs relating to pension scheme curtailment 0.2 At 31 December 359.5 365.8 The Group expects to contribute 1.8 million to its defined benefit plan in 2016.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 % % Equities and Diversified Growth Funds 65 62 LDI % 19 24 Cash 16 14 100 100 The Plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the holdings in an insurance policy.
At 31 December 2015 these represented c. 0.2% of the Plans total assets.
The Plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group.
Although, as the Plan holds pooled investment vehicles, there may at times be indirect employer related investment.
At 31 December 2015 these represented less than 0.1% of the Plans total assets.
The investment strategy is set by the Trustees of the Plan in consultation with the Group.
The current long-term strategy is to invest in a matching portfolio sufficient to meet the next 15 years of cash flows with the remaining assets invested in return seeking funds.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages where appropriate : 2015 2014 % p. a.
Discount rate 3.7 3.5 Price inflation CPI RPI 2.0 3.0 2.0 3.0 Future salary growth n a 3% p. a. in 2015 Future pension increases LPI 5% CPI 2.1 2.1 LPI 3% RPI 2.3 2.3 LPI 2.5% CPI 1.7 1.7 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 115 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit schemes continued The post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2012 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2015 is 87.0 2014: 86.9 years for males and 89.2 2014: 89.1 years for females.
For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed 90.1 2014: 90.1 for males and 91.2 2014: 91.1 for females.
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement in respect of the Plan.
For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2015: 2015 2014 % % 0.5% p. a. decrease in the discount rate 8.1 8.3 0.5% p. a. increase in price inflation 5.0 5.2 One year increase in life expectancy 2.6 2.4 These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
This is unlikely in practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
31 Share-based payments The Group has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Restricted Share Plan: the Deferred Bonus Plan: the Performance Share Plan: the Ladbrokes Growth Plan: the International Share Option Scheme: the 1978 Share Option Scheme: Sharesave: the OWN Plan: and Freeshare.
The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in more detail below: i Restricted Share Plan Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan will vest after three years and are not subject to performance conditions, other than service conditions.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years.
For other employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
iii Performance Share Plan An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period.
The awards have two separate performance conditions: half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
iv Ladbrokes Growth Plan Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period.
Up to one third of the award may vest at the end of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets have been met at that time.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
v International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period.
Vested options lapse if they have not been exercised within 10 years of the date of grant.
All options have an EPS growth based performance condition.
Options have not been granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
vi 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value.
The scheme operates with a savings period of either three or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
vii OWN Plan Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to 75 per month to acquire shares.
For every one share purchased, the Group provides a match of one additional share.
viii Freeshare Under Freeshare, an award of up to 250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one years service.
Freeshares have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 116 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 31 Share-based payments continued The following table sets out the number of share awards outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Ladbrokes Growth Plan and 2010 Share Award Plan.
The outstanding awards at 1 January 2015 for these three plans as disclosed above have therefore been restated.
Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan: 2015 2014 Number 6,769,395 6,826,422 Weighted average fair value 0.96 0.93 The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date and the vesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a Monte Carlo simulation.
The total value of these shares is 4.9 million 2014: 10.2 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 1.11 2014: 1.35.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 25.0 pence 2014: 33.0 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is between two and three years 2014: between two and three years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 0.91 3.60 2014: 1.10 3.60.
At 31 December 2015, there were 2,743,200 options outstanding with an exercise price below 1.00, 2,368,579 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.01 and 2.00, 6,752 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,086,119 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
At 31 December 2014, there was no options outstanding with an exercise price below 1.00, there were 3,994,227 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 589,271 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,190,863 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 117 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The key inputs into the valuation models were as follows: 2015 2014 Weighted average share price 1.11 1.35 Weighted average exercise price 0.92 1.17 Expected volatility % 32.0 32.0 Expected life years 2.2 2.10 Risk free rate % 0.79 1.10 Expected dividend yield % 7.3 5.9 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of 4.1 million 2014: 2.8million relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
32 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings.
The terms of the leases vary significantly but can broadly be summarised as follows: Lease terms Shop leases are typically agreed on five year exit cycles either expiry or break, with a maximum term length of 15 years.
Some leases are shorter in duration or with earlier exits.
Determination of rent payments Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor at market rates.
Restrictions There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing lease arrangements.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year: 2015 2014 m m Minimum lease payments 68.9 68.3 Analysis of minimum lease payments by division: 2015 2014 m m UK Retail 58.8 57.4 European Retail 8.8 9.8 Digital 1.3 1.1 Total 68.9 68.3 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 60.5 64.9 After one year but not more than five years 147.8 168.7 After five years 58.0 88.8 Total 266.3 322.4 122 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 118 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 32 Commitments and contingencies continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining lease terms of between one and nine years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the year: 2015 2014 m m Minimum lease receipts 2.9 2.4 Future minimum annual rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 0.3 0.6 After one year but not more than five years 1.0 0.9 After five years 0.5 0.4 1.8 1.9 Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 325.0 million 2014: 442.0 million.
There have been no loan guarantees given by subsidiaries in the normal course of business to other subsidiary companies 2014: nil.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries with a value of 5.9 million 2014: 8.5 million and the joint venture with a value of 8.9 million 2014: 7.7 million.
33 Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries.
The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December.
Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom % equity interest Company 2015 2014 4 Arbiter & Weston Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Bartletts Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 3, 4 Birchgree Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Chequered Racing Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Competition Management Services Co. Limited 97.5 97.5 4 E. F. Politt & Son Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Forestal Land, Timber and Railways Company Limited The 100.0 100.0 1, 4 Gable House Estates Limited 100.0 100.0 Ganton House Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Greatmark Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Hillford Estates Limited 97.5 97.5 Hindwain Limited 100.0 100.0 4 J.
Ward Hill & Company 100.0 100.0 Jack Brown Bookmaker Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Jerusalem Development Mamilla Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Jerusalem Development Corporation Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Krullind Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke & Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Course Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Rentals Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Corporate Director Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Corporate Secretaries Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 3, 4 Ladbroke Dormant Holding Company Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 3 Ladbroke Entertainments Limited 100.0 100.0 3, 4 Ladbroke Group 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Group Homes Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 119 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Related party disclosures continued Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom continued 4 Ladbroke Group International 100.0 100.0 1, 4 Ladbroke Group Properties Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 4 Ladbroke Land Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Leasing South East Limited 100.0 100.0 3, 4 Ladbroke Racing Reading Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbroke Racing South East Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Retail Parks Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke US Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes CLJEA Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes CLJHC Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes CLJSW Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes Northern Ireland Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes Northern Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbrokes Contact Centre Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbrokes Coral Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes CPCB Limited 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes E-Gaming Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 2 Ladbrokes Group Finance plc 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 3, 4 Ladbrokes Investments Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes IT & Shared Services Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 4 Ladbrokes Life Benefits Trustee Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes PT Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Trustee Company Limited 100.0 100.0 4 London & Leeds Estates Limited 93.5 93.5 3 Maple Court Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 Margolis and Ridley Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Moffat Lodge Motor Inn Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 4 New Angel Court Limited 100.0 100.0 North West Bookmakers Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 4 Paddington Casino Limited 100.0 100.0 Sabrinet Limited 100.0 100.0 Sponsio Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Techno Land Improvements Limited 100.0 100.0 1 Town and County Factors Limited 100.0 100.0 Travel Document Service 100.0 100.0 Ventmear Limited 100.0 100.0 Vernons Competitions Company 100.0 100.0 124 ladbrokesplc.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 120 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com 33 Related party disclosures continued Subsidiaries based overseas % equity interest Country of incorporation Company 2015 2014 Australia Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbrokes Digital Australia Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbrokes Operations Australia Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0 1 LB Australia Holdings Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0 Panda Gaming Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0 Belgium ALL BETS SPRL 100.0 ALMAK SPRL 100.0 BURAK SPRL 100.0 1 Ladbroke Belgium S. A.
100.0 100.0 PARI BENELUX SPRL 100.0 Pari Mutuel Management Services S. A.
100.0 100.0 4 British Virgin Islands Creative Trend Limited 100.0 100.0 4 CTL Holdings International Limited 100.0 100.0 4 SRL Holdings International Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Sunrise Resources Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Cayman Islands Cayman Investments Number 1 100.0 100.0 4 International Finance Investment 100.0 100.0 Denmark Ladbrokes ApS 100.0 100.0 Sponsio Denmark A S 100.0 100.0 Gibraltar Balltree International Limited 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbrokes International plc 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership 100.0 100.0 Guernsey Exchange Platform Solutions Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Hong Kong Ladbrokes Lottery Asia Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ireland Ace Racing Limited 100.0 100.0 Dara Properties Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Gossamer Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Harney Bookmakers Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Keenan Sport & Leisure Limited 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbroke Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 2 Ladbroke Leisure Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Services Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Payments Ireland Limited 100.0 4 M D Betting Limited 100.0 100.0 1, 2 Israel Ladbrokes Israel Limited 100.0 100.0 Jersey IHF Jersey Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Ladbroke Channel Islands Limited 100.0 100.0 Maple Court Investments Jersey Limited 100.0 100.0 1 South Africa Ladbrokes SA Pty Ltd 60.0 60.0 Spain Ladbrokes Betting and Gaming Spain, S. A.
100.0 100.0 Sweden Ladbrokes AB 100.0 100.0 Sponsio Norden AB 100.0 100.0 1 United States Ladbrokes Holdco, Inc. 100.0 100.0 Stadium Technology Group LLC 79.0 79.0 1 Directly owned by Ladbrokes plc.
2 Companies that form part of the Group as at 31 December 2015 and which in the opinion of the directors principally affected the Groups reported results for the year.
3 The Group will be exempting the indicated companies from an audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 121 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Related party disclosures continued Joint Ventures % equity interest Country of incorporation Company 2015 2014 Mexico Digital Gaming Mexico S. A. P. I.
50.0 50.0 Panama Sportium Apuestas Panama 50.0 Spain Cirsa Digital S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apostes Catalunya S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Aragon, S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Asturias S. A. U.
50.0 Sportium Apuestas Canarias S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Castilla La Mancha S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Galicia, S. L. U 50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Levante, S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Melilla S. L. U.
50.0 Sportium Apuestas Navarra S. A. U 50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Oeste S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Other Associates % equity interest Country of incorporation Company 2015 2014 China Asia Gaming Technologies Beijing Co. Ltd 49.0 49.0 Asia Gaming Technologies Tianjin Co. Ltd 49.0 49.0 Hong Kong Asia Gaming Technologies Limited 49.0 49.0 United Kingdom 49's Limited 33.3 33.3 Games For Good Causes PLC 36.3 36.3 Lucky Choice Limited 33.3 33.3 Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited 23.4 23.4 Subsidiary of Sportium Apuestas Deportivas, S. A. in Spain.
com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 122 33 Related party disclosures continued Other than its associates and joint venture, the related parties of the Group are the executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2015 2014 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 2.8 4.1 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 1.6 Movement in loan balance with joint venture 0.1 Dividends received 2 Associates 1.2 Sundry expenditure 3 Associates 52.1 51.0 1 Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
2 Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
3 Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Details of related party outstanding balances 2015 2014 m m Loan balances outstanding Joint venture 0.6 0.5 Other receivables outstanding Associates 1.6 1.4 Joint venture 1.6 1.2 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at market prices and in the ordinary course of business.
Outstanding balances at 31 December 2015 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group has not raised any provision 2014: nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been good.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 123 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Related party disclosures continued Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The remuneration of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled 2.1 million 2014: 1.8 million, is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 71.
2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.9 3.1 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5 Termination benefits 1.4 0.2 Share-based payments 2.6 2.4 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 7.5 6.2 Directors interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
34 Proposed merger with Coral Ladbrokes plc and Gala Coral Group Limited have agreed terms of a recommended merger the Merger of Ladbrokes with certain businesses of Gala Coral, including Coral Retail, Eurobet Retail and Gala Corals Online business to create a leading European betting and gaming group that is better positioned to compete more effectively the Combined Entity.
Funding In October 2015 the Group signed a 1.35 billion facility with a syndicate of relationship banks to provide committed financing for the proposed merger.
The new facility has three tranches and will be available for drawing subject to completion of the merger with Coral.
Tranche A 600 million Term Facility - October 2016 and, subject to extension options, January 2018 Tranche B 400 million Revolving Credit Facility October 2020 Tranche C 350 million Revolving Credit Facility June 2019 The Group's remaining standalone 350 million June 2019 bank facilities will be cancelled as a condition precedent to drawing on the new facility.
Cash costs of 3.8 million in relation to the new facility have been capitalised within financial assets.
Playtech Agreement To assist in the flexibility for the Combined Entity to achieve integration and realise synergies, Playtech plc has agreed conditional upon completion, to accelerate the determination of amounts due to it under its marketing services agreement with Ladbrokes.
The sum agreed is 75 million, of which 40 million shall be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in the Combined Entity on completion of the Merger and with a further guaranteed 35 million in cash paid upon the delivery by Playtech of key operational milestones but, in any event, within 42 months following completion of the Merger.
35 Subsequent events There were no material subsequent events that required adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 124 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
