Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting for Mouchel Fair value adjustments Refer to page 80 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, We assessed the completeness and quantum of adjustments page 123 significant accounting policies and page 158 notes.
made by management against our own expectations, formed from review of the due diligence reports prepared during the acquisition.
The Group acquired Mouchel on 8 June 2015 for 260.6m consideration, funded through a rights issue.
Accounting for We determined that managements analysis appropriately reflects theacquisition required a fair value exercise to assess the the fair value exercise based on our understanding of Mouchels assetsandliabilities acquired, including valuing any separately particular circumstances and our knowledge and experience of  assets, both of which can be a particularly theindustry.
Valuation of identifiable intangible assets Fair value adjustments We reviewed the work performed on the purchase price allocation Management recorded 15.1m of fair value adjustment provisions by managements external expert.
following its analysis of net assets acquired.
These reflect its best In doing so we evaluated the professional competence and estimate of certain exposures in Mouchel identified during the due objectivity of that expert and challenged the following: diligence process that were not previously recognised in the balance sheet.
In relation to the customer contracts, we obtained third-party documentation for significant contracts and checked that Valuation of identifiable intangibles thesewere either existing agreements or sufficiently firm Management identified 141.0m of intangible assets in respect of futureorders.
Mouchels customer contracts, based on the work performed by an We challenged senior operational, commercial and financial external expert.
management on the contract assumptions and judgements, such as profitability, claims and cash flow timings, used to The value of these is calculated by discounting the income stream determine the carrying amount of the fair value adjustments.
We sensitised the discount rate and other key inputs and The determination of the discount rate applied to the contractual assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that would customer income was particularly judgemental, as it requires the berequired for the fair value to be materially misstated.
calculation of a risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital.
Based on the work done we have determined that the relevant intangible assets had been identified and valued appropriately.
We reviewed the property-specific development appraisals Valuation of land and properties supporting the carrying values and challenged the key assumptions Refer to page 80 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, underlying these appraisals as follows: page 126 significant accounting policies and page 146 notes.
We reviewed managements expected build cost per square foot Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value by comparing to the build costs for similar units on other sites iethe forecast selling price less the remaining costs to build and and where there were differences, validating explanations sell.
An assessment of the net realisable value of inventory is against third-party confirmations including quantity surveyor carried out at each balance sheet date and is dependent upon cost estimates, correspondence with suppliers or comparable managements estimate of forecast selling prices and build costs properties on other sites: by reference to current prices, which may require significant We challenged management on their intention to develop these judgement.
sites: and The Group holds inventory of 284m within the Residential We challenged managements forecast sales prices to division, which comprises the Groups land held for residential supporting third-party evidence from managements external development 117m and residential work in progress 167m sales agents and by comparing the forecast sales price of a where building work has commenced.
sample of sales prices achieved and the list prices of comparable assets as published by estate agents.
We focused our work on those sites where there is no immediate intention of development as there is a risk that they are valued We did not encounter any issues through our audit procedures that above their recoverable amount.
Therefore a change in the Groups indicated the land or properties tested were impaired.
forecast estimate of sales price and build cost could have a material impact on the carrying value of inventories in the Groups financial statements.
113 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
