Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued 1 1 Significant accounting policies continued Non-underlying items Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary Certain items are presented separately in the consolidated income to ensure consistency with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group statement as non-underlying items where, in the judgement of the transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated directors, they need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their onconsolidation.
nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying business performance.
b Joint arrangements Examples of material items which may give rise to disclosure as A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the non-underlying items include gains or losses on the disposal of Group undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint businesses, costs of restructuring and reorganisation of existing control withthird parties.
businesses, integration of newly acquired businesses, asset The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using impairments and acquisition transaction costs.
They also include theequity method.
Under this method the Groups share of the reclassification of provisions in respect of such items.
profits less losses of jointly controlled entities is included in the Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is also treated as a consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets non-underlying item so that the underlying profit of the Group can is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
be measured on a comparable basis from period to period.
Where the share of losses exceeds the Groups interest in the entity and there is no obligation to fund these losses the carrying These are examples, and from time to time it may be appropriate amount is reduced to nil, following which no further losses are to disclose further items as non-underlying in order to highlight the recognised.
Interest in the entity is the carrying amount of the underlying performance of the Group.
investment together with any long-term interests that, in Underlying operating profit is one of the key measures used by the substance, form part of the net investment in the entity.
Board to monitor the Groupsperformance.
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with 1 otherparties.
These fall under the category of joint operations as Exceptional items.
In accordance with IFRS11, theGroup accounts Revenue and profit recognition for its own share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or measured according to the terms of theagreements.
receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
It also includes the Groups Goodwill and other intangible assets proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration over the Groups interest in the fair value of the Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
a Construction contracts Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment Revenue arises from increases in valuations on contracts and is atleast annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the normally determined by external valuations.
It is the gross value of income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Negative work carried out for the period to the balance sheet date including goodwill is recognised in the income statement immediately.
On retentions but excludes claims until they are actually certified.
disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable carrying amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the Profit on contracts is calculated in accordance with accounting profit or loss on disposal.
Industry practice is to assess the estimated final outcome of each contract and recognise the profit Other intangible assets which comprise contract rights and based upon the percentage of completion of the contract at the computer software are stated at cost less accumulated relevant date.
The assessment of the final outcome of each amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to contract is determined by regular review of the revenues and costs administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line to complete that contract.
Consistent contract review procedures basis over the expected useful lives of the assets, which are are in place in respect of contract forecasting.
principally as follows: The general principles for profit recognition are as follows: Contract rights Over the remaining contract life Profits on short duration contracts are taken when the contract Computer software 37 years is complete: Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are Profits on other contracts are recognised on a percentage of recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: completion basis when the contracts outcome can be estimated reliably: an asset is created that can be identified: Provision is made for losses incurred or foreseen in bringing it is probable that the asset created will generate future thecontract to completion as soon as they become apparent: economic benefits: and Claims receivable are recognised as income when received the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
orcertified for payment, except that in preparing contract Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which forecasts to completion, a prudent and reasonable evaluation itisincurred.
ofclaims receivable may be included to mitigate foreseeable losses and only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty of recovery: and Variations and compensation events are included in forecasts to completion when it is considered highly probable that they will be recovered.
124 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
