Glossary Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, financing fair defined as adjusted post-tax profit, excluding interest, property value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, lease costs and exceptional items.
A charge is then deducted by related tax items and tax on prior year items including the applying the weighted average cost of capital WACC to capital impact of rate changes on deferred tax.
For the purposes of consistency both WACC and have been restated to exclude the share of Hornbach results.
capital employed are lease adjusted and adjusted for exceptional A reconciliation to statutory amounts is set out in the Financial items.
Leases are capitalised based on an estimate of their longReview on pages 18 to 25. term property yields.
In order to focus on controllable factors both WACC and long-term property yields are based on those Banque fide France data includes relocated and extended stores.
in place when KEP was introduced.
do?node 5384326 LFL stands for like-for-like sales growth representing the constant Chinese property market new property market transactions currency, year on year sales growth for stores that have been sales down 11% for the 12 months to December 2014 for the open for more than a year.
17 cities in which B&Q China operates, according to the China Real Estate Exchange.
Reduce existing product tail plan to reduce the number of Net cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives delisted and ex-promotional ranges which do not form part excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents of existing retail planograms.
It excludes balances classified as assets and liabilities held for sale.
EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as retail profit less central costs New country development consists of Germany, Portugal and and before depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDAR earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation Omnichannel allowing customers to shop with us in any way and property operating lease rentals is calculated as retail profit they prefer.
less central costs, before depreciation and amortisation and Other International consists of China, Germany, Poland, Portugal, property operating lease rentals.
Romania, Russia, Spain and Turkey Kota JV.
Europe consists of Europe and its bordering countries e. g. Planogram a diagram that shows how and where specific retail Russia, Turkey.
products should be placed on retail shelves or displays.
France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dpt France.
Retail profit is operating profit stated before central costs, Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations less exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the amount spent on tax, interest and capital expenditure during the Groups share of interest and tax of JVs and associates.
the year excluding business acquisitions and disposals.
A 2013 14 comparatives have been restated to exclude the share reconciliation from operating profit before exceptional items of Hornbach operating profit.
is set out in the Financial Review on page 22.
Right-size refers to the space optimisation programme of B&Qs French house building market new housing starts and planning property estate covering downsizing, relocations and closures.
consent data for the 12 months to January 2015 according to Sales Group sales exclude Joint Venture Kota JV sales.
Smaller tradesman market Kingfisher estimate for the UK html smaller tradesman market is a weighted average incorporating 70% trade using the most recent public data available for the FFVR financing fair value remeasurements represents big trade merchants as a proxy and 30% DIY using the UK changes in the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding RMI Repairs, Maintenance & Improvement GfK large chain interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying shed data.
value of borrowings and other hedged items under fair value hedge relationships.
UK home improvement leader market Kingfisher estimate for the UK RMI Repairs, Maintenance & Improvement market KEP Kingfisher Economic Profit represents earnings after a incorporates GfK data, which includes new space but which charge for the annual cost of capital employed in the business excludes B&Q Ireland and private retailers, e. g. IKEA and other and is derived from the concept of Economic Value Added.
Kingfisher data is submitted on a cash Management is focused on KEP as a main measure of return sales basis and is adjusted for discounts.
It is used in the capital investment process to assess performance and drive returns in strategic plans.
Earnings are UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix.
com 147 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Amadeus Primo silk and UPM Fine Offset, papers containing virgin bre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Kingsher is included in two socially responsible indices, the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
Kingsher also retained Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index Platinum Big Tick.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 148 CR INDEX 2014 King sher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
