Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2015 begun a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure 1 Significant accounting policies that the impact and effect of the new standard is fully understood Kier Group plc the Company is a company domiciled in the and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted UnitedKingdom UK and incorporated in England and Wales.
and acted upon in advance of the effective date.
Theconsolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries Other than the impact of IFRS15 as noted above, no significant together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in netimpact from the adoption of these new standards is expected.
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards andinterpretations earlier than required.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the directors on 16 September 2015.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Statement of compliance Groups financial statements.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Basis of consolidation Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union a Subsidiaries IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has Company drawn up to 30 June 2015.
Control exists when the applied all accounting standards issued by the International Group has direct or indirect power to govern the financial and Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefits bythe International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated asadopted by the European Union and effective for accounting financial statements from the date that control transfers to the periods beginning on 1 July 2014.
Group until the date that control ceases.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which Practice GAAP.
These are presented on pages 161 to 163. control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain Basis of preparation benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group The Group has considerable financial resources, long-term takesinto consideration potential voting rights that currently contracts and a diverse range of customers and suppliers across areexercisable.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable date carrying value of the acquirers previously held equity interest expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date: resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable any gains or losses arising from such re-measurements are future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going recognised in profit or loss.
concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
They goodwill at the acquisition date as: have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
The fair value of the consideration transferred: plus The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the The following new standards and amendments to standards are acquiree: plus effective for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 onwards: If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less IFRS11 Joint Arrangements The net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements When the result is negative, a bargain purchase gain is IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures recognised immediately in profit or loss.
IAS36 Impairment of Assets Recoverable amount Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised disclosures for non-financial assets within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The following new standards and amendments to standards The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to havebeen issued, and will take effect for periods starting after the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are 1January 2018 and 1 January 2017 respectively: generally recognised in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or IFRS9 Financial Instruments equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent The directors are considering the impact of these new standards consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition and interpretations in future periods.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the income statement unless the IFRS15 will replace IAS18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction contingent consideration is classified as equity, in which case Contracts.
It will become effective for accounting periods on or settlement is accounted for within reserves.
after 1 January 2017 at the earliest and will therefore be applied for the first time to the Group accounts in 30 June 2018: the IASB has indicated that early adoption will be permitted.
The Group has 123 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
