Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements There was no contribution from Hornbach to the current year 1 General information adjusted non-GAAP results.
Statutory GAAP measures have not been restated.
Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates together the Group supply home improvement The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate products and services through a network of retail stores and enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group other channels, located mainly in the United Kingdom, to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future continental Europe and China.
The nature of the Groups and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the Report on pages 2 to 29. year ended 31 January 2015.
Refer to the Directors statement of responsibility on page 79.
The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of its The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in registered office is 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as W2 6PX.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the including the name, country of incorporation and proportion Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under of ownership interest is given in note 5 of the Companys IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply separate financial statements.
with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved The following new standards, which are mandatory for the first for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2015. time for the financial year ended 31 January 2015, are relevant for the Group: 2 Principal accounting policies IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These determining factor in whether an entity should be included policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, within the consolidated financial statements of the parent unless otherwise stated.
A prior year restatement as a result of company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist the disposal of Hornbach is described in section a of this note.
in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
Basis of preparation IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, focuses on the rights and The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to the legal form.
There are two types of joint arrangements: joint nearest Saturday to 31 January each year, except as disclosed operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where in note 16 and in note 5 of the Companys separate financial the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the statements.
The current financial year is the 52 weeks ended liabilities of an arrangement.
A joint operator accounts for its 31 January 2015 the year or 2014 15.
The comparative share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint financial year is the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2014 the prior ventures arise where the investors have rights to the net year or 2013 14.
The consolidated income statement and assets of the arrangement and are accounted for under related notes represent results for continuing operations, there the equity method.
being no discontinued operations in the years presented.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, includes The following non-GAAP measures have been restated in the the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other comparatives to exclude the contribution of Hornbach, in order entities, including joint arrangements, associates, structured to improve comparability following its disposal in the current year: entities and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The adoption of the above new standards has not had a material 2013 14 impact on the Group.
Other standards, amendments and Before After interpretations which are mandatory for the first time for the millions restatement Restatement restatement financial year ended 31 January 2015 are either not currently Retail profit Group 805 26 779 relevant or not material for the Group.
Retail profit Other International 171 26 145 Adjusted pre-tax profit 744 14 730 Adjusted earnings 552 14 538 Adjusted basic earnings per share 23.4p 0.6 p 22.8p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 23.2p 0.6 p 22.6p Segment assets Group 3,894 198 3,696 Segment assets Other International 1,174 198 976 www.
com 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Use of non-GAAP measures 2 Principal accounting policies continued In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, measures that are not required under IFRS, the Generally the following new standards and interpretations, which have Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP under which the not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue Group reports.
Kingfisher believes that retail profit, adjusted but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been pre-tax profit, effective tax rate, adjusted post-tax profit and adopted by the EU : adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These and other nonIFRIC 21, Levies effective from the Groups 2015 16 financial year : GAAP measures such as net debt cash are used by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, exceptional effective from the Groups 2017 18 financial year : items, adjusted, effective tax rate and net debt cash are not IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from the defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRIC 21 sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy GAAP measures.
The interpretation changes the timing of Like-for-like LFL sales growth is defined as the constant when such liabilities are recognised, particularly in connection with levies that are triggered by circumstances on a specific date.
currency, year-on-year sales growth for stores that have been open for more than a year.
This will apply from the Groups 2015 16 financial year, with restatement of 2014 15 comparatives.
It will not have a material Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before impact on the annual results, but will have a significant impact central costs principally the costs of the Groups head office, on the quarterly phasing of operating profit and related deferred exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles tax in France, with more costs being recognised in the final and the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures quarter of the year.
It will also result in a restatement of balance and associates.
2013 14 comparatives have been restated sheet payables and deferred tax.
com to exclude the share of Hornbach operating profit.
for further details on the restatement.
The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, The directors do not expect that the adoption of IFRS 15 and which are presented as exceptional within their relevant income IFRS 9 will have a material impact on the financial statements statement category, helps provide an indication of the Groups of the Group in future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact underlying business performance.
The principal items which both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
are included as exceptional items are: Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a non-trading items included in operating profit such as detailed review has been completed.
profits and losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and investments The consolidated financial statements have been prepared which do not form part of the Groups trading activities: under the historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations for certain financial instruments, share-based profits and losses on the disposal of properties and payments and post-employment benefits.
A summary of the impairment losses on non-operational assets: and Groups principal accounting policies is set out below.
the costs of significant restructuring and incremental acquisition integration costs.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates and The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its reported for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting financing fair value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition policies.
The areas involving critical accounting estimates and intangibles, related tax items and prior year tax items including judgements, which are significant to the consolidated financial the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
2013 14 statements, are disclosed in note 3. comparatives have been restated to exclude the share of Hornbach results.
Financing fair value remeasurements represent changes in the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of borrowings and other hedged items under fair value hedge relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that relate to underlying items of a financing nature.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 90 Accounts ii Joint ventures and associates 2 Principal accounting policies continued Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
The effective tax rate represents the effective income tax Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of expense as a percentage of continuing profit before taxation an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the excluding exceptional items.
Effective income tax expense is relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties the continuing income tax expense excluding tax on exceptional sharing control.
The equity method is used to account items and tax adjustments in respect of prior years and the for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability Net debt cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives to exercise significant influence but not control, generally excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% and short-term deposits.
It excludes balances classified as of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account assets and liabilities held for sale.
for the Groups investments in associates.
Basis of consolidation Under the equity method investments are initially recognised The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial at cost.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures is recognised in the income statement within operating profit, and associates.
and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition i Subsidiaries movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over the investment.
When the Groups share of losses equals or which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when exceeds its interest, including any long-term receivables, the the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from Group does not recognise any further losses, unless it has its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition method Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its of accounting and their results included from the date of joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries which have been Groups interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless disposed are included up to the effective date of disposal.
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary transferred.
Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration the policies adopted by the Group.
transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related an investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control or and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business significant influence over the investee or on the date it is combination are measured initially at their fair values at the classified as held for sale.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the c. Foreign currencies acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests i Presentation and functional currencies proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Subsequent The consolidated financial statements are presented in to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests Sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Items is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the included in the financial statements of each of the Groups non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling economic environment in which the entity operates interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests i. e. its functional currency.
ii Transactions and balances The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the  into the functional currency at the exchange rates date fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree prevailing on the date of the transaction or, for practical over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is reasons, at average monthly rates where exchange rates recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of do not fluctuate significantly.
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
com 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Other income is generally composed primarily of external 2 Principal accounting policies continued rental income and profits and losses on disposal of assets.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are items are taken to the income statement.
Exceptions to this are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
foreign operation or are designated and effective net investment or cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially e. Rebates deferred in equity.
Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related rebates on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume iii Group companies related rebates are accrued as units are purchased based on the The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed percentage rebate applicable to forecast total purchases over the in Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
rebate period, where it is probable the rebates will be received Profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in and the amounts can be estimated reliably.
Discretionary rebates Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange are not anticipated and only recognised once earned.
Rebates differences arising on the retranslation of foreign operations, relating to inventories purchased but still held at the balance including joint ventures and associates, are recognised in a sheet date are deducted from the carrying value so that the separate component of equity.
cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to the Cost of sales line in the income On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the statement when the goods are sold.
retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign and marketing, are recognised in the income statement operation is sold, such exchange differences recorded since when the relevant conditions have been fulfilled.
1 February 2004 are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
f. Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 February 2004 g. Intangible assets is denominated in Sterling.
i Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising Principal rates of exchange against Sterling: from assets acquired in a business combination that are 2014 15 2013 14 not individually identified and separately recognised.
Such benefits include future synergies expected from the Average Year end Average Year end rate rate rate rate combination and intangible assets not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.
Euro 1.25 1.33 1.18 1.22 US Dollar 1.64 1.50 1.57 1.64 Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment Polish Zloty 5.23 5.57 4.95 5.17 by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash generating Russian Rouble 66.70 105.58 50.49 57.81 unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill Chinese Renminbi 10.11 9.39 9.62 9.97 relates.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows d. Revenue recognition value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
The Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted services.
Sales exclude transactions made between companies average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes associated with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
When the recoverable amount of the Sales of in-store products are generally recognised at the point goodwill is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is of cash receipt.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty recognised immediately in the income statement which cannot points are provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount subsequently be reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of allocated to the credits is deferred and recognised when the an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the credits are redeemed and the Group fulfils its obligations to entity sold.
ii Computer software For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either Where software is not an integral part of a related item of when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, computer hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset.
when the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or products and services represent only a small component of production of identifiable software products controlled by the the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases Group, which are expected to generate economic benefits of products.
exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised costs include those of software licences and development, including costs of employees, consultants and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 92 Accounts v Subsequent costs 2 Principal accounting policies continued Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated as incurred.
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Software under development is held at cost less any provisions for impairment, with impairment reviews being All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income performed annually.
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Amortisation commences when the software assets are available i.
Leased assets for use and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give h. Property, plant and equipment rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the i Cost lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum lease Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term provisions for impairment.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, as deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
at the transition date to IFRS.
All property acquired after The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance 1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
costs in the income statement over the lease term.
ii Depreciation All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight line reduction are generally charged to the income statement in the period from cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful to which the payments relate, except for those leases which life of the asset as follows: incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income Freehold land not depreciated statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Freehold and long leasehold over remaining useful life Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, buildings the buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period finance lease if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the of the lease land element will in most cases be classified as an operating Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years lease.
If the contracted lease payments are not split between land and buildings in the lease contract, the split is made based Computers and electronic between 3 and 5 years on the market values of the land and buildings at the inception equipment of the lease.
Motor cars 4 years Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years released to the income statement on a straight line basis over Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease the lease term.
Asset lives and residual values j.
Investment property are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental iii Impairment income or for capital appreciation.
The Groups investment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if properties are carried at cost less depreciation and provision events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment with that applied to property held for use in the business.
is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair held as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work value less costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is starts on the property to the date when substantially all the based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with activities which are necessary to get the property ready for appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant use are complete.
Where construction is completed in parts, cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is charged to the each part is considered separately when capitalising interest.
income statement in the period in which it occurs.
Interest is capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
iv Disposal l. Inventories The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds value, on a weighted average cost basis.
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Sales of land and buildings are accounted Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in for when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
determining the cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes appropriate attributable overheads and direct expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing goods to their present location and condition.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
com 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 2 Principal accounting policies continued on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is to make the sale.
Write downs to net realisable value are made accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
for slow moving, damaged or obsolete items and other events Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being lower temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to than cost.
The carrying value of inventories reflects known and the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available expected losses of product in the ordinary course of business.
against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax m. Employee benefits losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised i Post-employment benefits if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition The Group operates various defined benefit and defined of goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax assets and contribution pension schemes for its employees, some of which liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises are required by local legislation.
A defined benefit scheme is a from the initial recognition other than in a business combination pension scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects which an employee will receive on retirement.
A defined neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the a separate fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary liabilities.
The assets of each of these funds are either held difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
under trusts or managed by insurance companies and are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at entirely separate from the Groups assets.
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance calculated annually by independent actuaries using the sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined liability is settled or the asset is realised.
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income bonds which are denominated in the currency in which the statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
also recognised directly in equity.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same to the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Provisions The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal expense when they are due.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to ii Share-based compensation settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options or If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are deferred shares is recognised as an expense and is calculated determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The total amount pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments of the to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares to the liability.
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting p. Financial instruments conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the expected and actual levels of options vesting due to Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the non-market vesting conditions.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are n. Taxation derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax from the financial asset expire or the Group has substantially currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial is based on taxable profit for the year.
liabilities or a part of a financial liability are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported or cancelled or expires.
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or which are never taxable or deductible.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 94 Accounts Fair value hedges 2 Principal accounting policies continued For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, entry being recorded in the income statement.
Gains or losses or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
from remeasuring the corresponding hedging instrument are recognised in the same line of the income statement.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits Cash flow hedges held on call with banks and other short-term highly liquid Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of investments with original maturities of three months or less.
derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion ii Borrowings being recognised immediately in the income statement Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial at amortised cost.
Where borrowings are in designated and asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated effective fair value hedge relationships, adjustments are made gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been to their carrying amounts to reflect the hedged risks.
Finance recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of charges, including premiums payable on settlement or the non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the redemption and direct issue costs, are amortised to the recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in income statement using the effective interest method.
equity are recognised in the income statement in the same iii Other investments including short-term deposits period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Other investments may include short-term deposits with banks Net investment hedges and other investments with original maturities of more than Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations three months.
Investments classified as available-for-sale through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the under IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and retranslation of the borrowings are recognised directly in equity.
measurement, are initially measured at fair value, with If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the subsequent changes in fair value recorded directly in equity.
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any Any dividends received are recognised in the income statement.
ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are in equity are transferred to the income statement.
recycled through the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
iv Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision in advance the relationship between the item being hedged for bad and doubtful debts.
The Group also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the v Trade payables hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to vi Derivatives and hedge accounting ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument which it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss in the fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in items and financing items are recognised in operating profit equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
and net finance costs respectively.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently carried to the income statement.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other financial instruments classified as hedges depends on their host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship.
risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host The Group designates certain financial instruments as: contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : q.
Assets and liabilities held for sale a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held firm commitment cash flow hedge : or for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and net investment hedge.
the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.
com 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Inventories 2 Principal accounting policies continued As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable Management must be committed to the sale, which should value this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale goods to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of inventories of factors such as slow moving items, shrinkage, Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value damage and obsolescence.
The quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly measured and assessed as part of range less costs to sell.
This excludes financial assets, deferred tax assets and assets arising from employee benefits, which are reviews and inventory counts undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.
Refer to note 17 for further information.
measured according to the relevant accounting policy.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not Rebates depreciated once classified as held for sale.
The Group ceases Rebate income received from suppliers represents a material to use the equity method of accounting from the date on which element of our gross profit, with a large number of agreements an interest in a jointly controlled entity or an interest in an with varying terms existing across our operating companies.
associate becomes held for sale.
Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of these rebates.
Where the percentage rate of such rebates depends 3 Critical accounting estimates on the volumes purchased, forecasts are required, particularly and judgements at interim periods, of full usually calendar year purchases.
Forecasts are informed by historical trading patterns, current The preparation of consolidated financial statements under performance and trends.
However this judgement is reduced IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions significantly for full year reporting, due to the Groups January that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including Other types of rebates, such as contributions towards marketing expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable and advertising activities, represent a smaller element of the under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these Groups overall rebate income.
The estimates, judgements and assumptions which on the timing of recognition, in particular assessing when any have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the corresponding conditions have been fulfilled.
Judgement is also carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial required over the recoverability of receivables relating to rebates.
Income taxes Impairment of goodwill and other assets The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax assets are carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of The procedures, by their nature, require estimates and business.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in assumptions to be made.
The most significant are set out below.
determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based The Group is required, on at least an annual basis, to test on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts testing the recoverable amounts of cash generating units have which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash prior years are recorded in the income statement, or directly generating unit and the choice of suitable discount and longin equity as appropriate, and are disclosed in the notes to the term growth rates in order to calculate the present value of the accounts.
Refer to notes 9 and 25 for further information.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
Further information on the impairment Restructuring provisions tests undertaken, including the key assumptions, is given The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to in note 12. historical and on-going restructuring programmes.
The most significant part of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are property contracts.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
closed stores and subletting surplus space.
Refer to note Computer software under development is assessed for 26 for further information.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash Post-employment benefits generating unit is determined as the higher of fair value less The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated on the basis of on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of assumptions managements assumptions and estimates.
including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, inflation and mortality rates.
The net interest expense or income is At each reporting date the Group is required to assess whether dependent on the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
there is objective evidence that its investments in associates The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and and joint ventures may be impaired.
This requires estimates changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements of the investments recoverable amounts, including present in the estimated obligations.
To help the reader understand the values of the Groups share of future cash flows.
impact of changes in the key assumptions, a sensitivity analysis is provided in note 27.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 96 Accounts 4 Segmental analysis Income statement 2014 15 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,6004,1321,055 1,179 10,966 Retail profit 276 349 118 10 733 Central costs 40 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 6 Exceptional items 35 Operating profit 652 Net finance costs 8 Profit before taxation 644 2013 14 restated note 2a Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,363 4,423 1,109 1,230 11,125 Retail profit 238 396 123 22 779 Central costs 42 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 5 Share of Hornbach operating profit 26 Share of Hornbach interest and tax 12 Exceptional items 10 Operating profit 736 Net finance income including 27m exceptional credit 23 Profit before taxation 759 Balance sheet 2014 15 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,543 1,240 501 395 3,679 Central liabilities 183 Goodwill 2,414 Net cash 329 Net assets 6,239 2013 14 restated note 2a Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,356 1,364 563 413 3,696 Investment in Hornbach 198 Central liabilities 232 Goodwill 2,417 Net cash 238 Net assets 6,317 www.
com 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2014 15 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 115 93 14 51 2 275 Depreciation and amortisation 135 79 18 29 1 262 Impairment losses 17 3 1 9 30 1 Non-current assets 3,256 1,833 514 288 14 5,905 2013 14 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 90 127 24 63 304 Depreciation and amortisation 127 84 19 30 1 261 2 Impairment losses 2 2 1 Non-current assets 3,2461,970565518 15 6,314 1 Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
2 Impairment losses in the prior year exclude the exceptional impairment of the investment in Hornbach of 45m.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive.
This information is predominantly based on the geographical areas in which the Group operates and which are managed separately.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, China, Germany, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain and the joint venture Kotas in Turkey.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, interest and tax.
5 Exceptional items millions 2014 15 2013 14 Included within selling and distribution expenses UK & Ireland restructuring 17 7 Transaction costs 15 5 32 2 Included within other income Disposal of properties and non-operational asset losses 3 2 3 2 Included within share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates Net impairment of investment in Hornbach 14 14 Included within finance income Kesa demerger French tax case repayment supplement income 27 27 Exceptional items before tax 35 17 Exceptional tax items 106 114 Exceptional items 71 131 Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 98 Accounts 5 Exceptional items continued Current year exceptional items include a 17m restructuring charge in the UK relating to the transformation of B&Q, driven by productivity initiatives aimed at delivering a simpler, more efficient business with a lower cost operating model.
The prior year exceptional credit of 7m reflected the release of provisions that had been recorded in January 2013 when B&Q Ireland entered into an Examinership process, which it successfully exited in May 2013 with the closure of only one store.
Current year transaction costs of 15m have been incurred, including costs relating to Mr Bricolage and the agreement to sell a controlling stake in the B&Q China business 2013 14: 5m principally related to Bricostore Romania.
There is a net charge of 3m relating to the disposal of properties and impairment of non-operational assets 2013 14: 2m profit.
A net impairment loss of 14m was recognised in the prior year on the Groups investment in Hornbach.
This comprised a loss of 45m on remeasurement of the investment to fair value, offset by a 31m gain on the transfer from reserves of cumulative foreign exchange gains since transition to IFRS.
The current year exceptional tax credit of 106m includes the tax impact on exceptional items and the release of prior year provisions, which have either been agreed with the tax authorities, reassessed, or time expired.
In the prior year there was an exceptional tax credit of 114m, which included 118m taxation provision releases related to the successful resolution of the Kesa demerger French tax case.
A 27m repayment supplement provision release was also recognised in relation to this case.
6 Net finance costs income millions 2014 15 2013 14 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 7 3 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 3 3 Finance leases 3 4 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 2 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 Net interest expense on defined benefit pension schemes 3 Finance costs 13 12 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits 5 6 Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 2 Kesa demerger French tax case repayment supplement income note 5 27 Finance income 5 35 Net finance costs income 8 23 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 11m 2013 14: 12m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of nil 2013 14: 1m.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net gain on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 21m 2013 14: 41m loss, offset by a net loss from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 17m 2013 14: 39m gain.
com 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before taxation The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Sales 10,966 11,125 Other income 37 39 Finance income 5 35 Revenue 11,008 11,199 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Operating lease rentals Minimum lease payments Property 440 440 Minimum lease payments Equipment 40 42 Sublease income 18 16 462 466 Rental income received on investment property 6 7 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 39 31 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property Owned assets 212 220 Under finance leases 11 10 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 22 2 Impairment of other intangible assets 8 Impairment of investment in Hornbach note 16 45 Gain loss on disposal Land and buildings, investment property and property held for sale 21 2 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1 3 Inventories: write down to net realisable value 25 32 Trade and other receivables: write down of bad and doubtful debts 4 4 1 Of the amortisation of other intangible assets charge, 1m 2013 14: 2m and 38m 2013 14: 29m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Auditors remuneration millions 2014 15 2013 14 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.5 Audit fees 1.8 1.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.1 Other taxation advisory services 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 Other services 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.2 0.4 Auditors remuneration 2.0 2.2 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 43.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 100 Accounts 8 Employees and directors millions 2014 15 2013 14 Wages and salaries 1,260 1,279 Social security costs 253 265 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution 28 27 Defined benefit service cost only 9 9 Share-based compensation 11 7 Employee benefit expenses 1,561 1,587 Number thousands 2014 15 2013 14 Stores 72 71 Administration 5 5 Average number of persons employed 77 76 The average number of persons employed excludes employees in the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel millions 2014 15 2013 14 Short-term employee benefits 7.2 6.6 Post-employment benefits 1.2 1.0 Termination benefits 1.5 Share-based compensation 1.4 0.1 11.3 7.7 Key management consists of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 75.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2013 14: nil.
9 Income tax expense millions 2014 15 2013 14 UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 46 47 Adjustments in respect of prior years 96 7 50 40 Overseas tax Current tax on profits for the year 138 131 Kesa demerger French tax case 118 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 6 11 132 2 Deferred tax Current year 12 16 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 1 9 11 7 Income tax expense 71 49 www.
com 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense continued Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% 2013 14: 23%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Profit before taxation 644 759 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% 2013 14: 23% 135 175 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 2 Net income not chargeable for tax purposes 5 16 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 4 3 Losses not recognised 11 9 Foreign tax rate differences 36 31 Adjustments in respect of prior years 102 136 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 1 9 Income tax expense 71 49 The effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 27% 2013 14: 26%.
Exceptional tax items for the year amount to a credit of 106m, 95m of which relates to prior year items.
In 2013 14 exceptional tax items amounted to a credit of 114m, with 118m relating to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 21.
The overall tax rate for the year is 11% 2013 14: 6% reflecting the release of prior year provisions either agreed with the tax authorities, reassessed or time expired.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 99m has been charged directly to equity 2013 14: 67m credit, of which a 13m credit 2013 14: 19m credit is included in current tax and a 112m charge 2013 14: 48m credit is included in deferred tax and principally relates to post-employment benefits.
Future changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate fell from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and will fall to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The Spanish tax rate will fall from 30% to 28% for the year ended 31 December 2015 and will fall to 25% for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 102 Accounts 10 Earnings per share 2014 15 2013 14 restated note 2a Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share millions millions pence millions millions pence Basic earnings per share 573 2,358 24.3 709 2,363 30.0 Effect of dilutive share options 11 0.1 19 0.3 Diluted earnings per share 573 2,369 24.2 709 2,382 29.7 Basic earnings per share 573 2,358 24.3 709 2,363 30.0 Share of Hornbach post-tax results 14 0.6 Exceptional items before tax 35 1.5 17 0.7 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 112 4.8 141 6.0 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 0.2 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 10.1 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 493 2,358 20.9 538 2,363 22.8 Diluted earnings per share 573 2,369 24.2 709 2,382 29.7 Share of Hornbach post-tax results 14 0.6 Exceptional items before tax 35 1.5 17 0.7 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 112 4.8 141 5.9 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 0.2 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 10.1 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 493 2,369 20.8 538 2,382 22.6 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan trust ESOP trust which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 Dividends millions 2014 15 2013 14 Dividends to equity shareholders of the Company Special interim dividend of 4.2p per share paid 25 July 2014 100 Ordinary interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 3.15p per share 1 February 2014: 3.12p per share 75 74 Ordinary final dividend for the year ended 1 February 2014 of 6.78p per share 2 February 2013: 6.37p per share 159 150 334 224 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 6.85p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
com 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill millions Cost At 2 February 2014 2,541 Transfers to assets held for sale 131 Exchange differences 4 At 31 January 2015 2,414 Impairment At 2 February 2014 124 Transfers to assets held for sale 131 Exchange differences 7 At 31 January 2015 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 2,414 Cost At 3 February 2013 2,524 Additions 18 Exchange differences 1 At 1 February 2014 2,541 Impairment At 3 February 2013 125 Exchange differences 1 At 1 February 2014 124 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 2,417 Goodwill relating to B&Q China has been reclassified to assets held for sale in the current year.
In the prior year the Group acquired the Bricostore Romania companies resulting in additions to goodwill of 18m.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland China Other Total At 31 January 2015 Cost 1,798 519 81 16 2,414 Net carrying amount 1,798 519 81 16 2,414 At 1 February 2014 Cost 1,79852081124 182,541 Impairment 124 124 Net carrying amount 1,798 520 81 18 2,417 The recoverable amounts of these groups of CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
All CGU value-in-use calculations are considered to have been valued using level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 104 Accounts 12 Goodwill continued The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland.
The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.
Assumptions The cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets and strategic plans covering a five year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
Key drivers in the plans are like-for-like LFL sales, margin and operating profit percentage.
LFL sales projections take into consideration both external factors such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading plans.
Cash flows beyond this five year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash flows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt, leases and equity, weighted according to an estimate of the CGUs capital gearing.
A risk adjustment is also made for the country in which the CGU operates.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates and long-term growth rates used are as follows: 2014 15 Annual % rate UK France Poland Discount rate 8.6 8.7 8.7 Long-term growth rate 3.0 2.4 3.5 2013 14 Annual % rate UK France Poland Discount rate 8.9 10.5 10.2 Long-term growth rate 3.0 2.6 3.3 www.
com 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Other intangible assets Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 2 February 2014 490 12 502 Additions 86 1 87 Disposals 17 17 Transfers to assets held for sale 12 12 Exchange differences 5 1 6 At 31 January 2015 542 12 554 Amortisation At 2 February 2014 275 5 280 Charge for the year 38 1 39 Impairment losses 8 8 Disposals 17 17 Transfers to assets held for sale 10 10 Exchange differences 4 4 At 31 January 2015 290 6 296 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 252 6 258 Cost At 3 February 2013 414 9 423 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 86 2 88 Disposals 7 7 Exchange differences 3 3 At 1 February 2014 490 12 502 Amortisation At 3 February 2013 253 4 257 Charge for the year 30 1 31 Disposals 5 5 Exchange differences 3 3 At 1 February 2014 275 5 280 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 215 7 222 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 106 Accounts 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost At 2 February 2014 3,160 2,587 5,747 Additions 58 146 204 Disposals 19 59 78 Transfers to assets held for sale 214 113 327 Exchange differences 198 85 283 At 31 January 2015 2,787 2,476 5,263 Depreciation At 2 February 2014 429 1,693 2,122 Charge for the year 51 172 223 Impairment losses 9 3 12 Disposals 4 58 62 Transfers to assets held for sale 87 85 172 Exchange differences 18 45 63 At 31 January 2015 380 1,680 2,060 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 2,407 796 3,203 Cost At 3 February 2013 3,180 2,540 5,720 Additions 85 135 220 Acquisition of subsidiaries 55 5 60 Disposals 12 29 41 Exchange differences 148 64 212 At 1 February 2014 3,160 2,587 5,747 Depreciation At 3 February 2013 396 1,576 1,972 Charge for the year 51 178 229 Impairment losses 1 1 2 Disposals 3 29 32 Exchange differences 16 33 49 At 1 February 2014 429 1,693 2,122 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 2,731 894 3,625 Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 33 40 73 At 1 February 2014 44 34 78 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 16 28 44 At 1 February 2014 18 33 51 The cumulative total of borrowing costs included at the balance sheet date, net of depreciation, is 27m 2013 14: 27m.
com 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,248 147 392 2,787 3,160 Depreciation 160 9 211 380 429 Net carrying amount 2,088 138 181 2,407 2,731 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 31 January 2015 is 170m 2013 14: 254m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in November by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 2.7bn 2013 14: 3.4bn on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
All the property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
15 Investment property millions Cost At 2 February 2014 60 Transfers to assets held for sale 19 At 31 January 2015 41 Depreciation At 2 February 2014 10 Impairment losses 10 Transfers to assets held for sale 9 At 31 January 2015 11 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 30 Cost At 3 February 2013 79 Disposals 3 Transfers to assets held for sale 10 Exchange differences 6 At 1 February 2014 60 Depreciation At 3 February 2013 13 Charge for the year 1 Disposals 1 Exchange differences 3 At 1 February 2014 10 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 50 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 60m 2013 14: 77m.
All the investment properties held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 108 Accounts 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates millions At 2 February 2014 32 Share of post-tax results 5 Dividends 7 Exchange differences 2 At 31 January 2015 28 At 3 February 2013 289 Share of post-tax results before impairment 22 Share of post-tax results exceptional impairment 45 Dividends 11 Transfers to assets held for sale 198 Exchange differences 25 At 1 February 2014 32 In the prior year the Group concluded it had lost the ability to exercise significant influence over the Hornbach businesses based on the Group ceasing to participate in the significant financial and operating policy decisions made by Hornbach.
The Groups investment was written down to its fair value of 198m, resulting in an exceptional impairment loss of 45m being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The impairment loss was included within the Groups share of post-tax results, however this excluded an exceptional transfer from reserves of cumulative foreign exchange gains since transition to IFRS of 31m.
The Group recorded a 14m pre-exceptional profit in relation to its share of Hornbachs post-tax results, comprising 26m of operating profit less 12m share of interest and tax.
Due to active marketing of the shares at the balance sheet date, the investment was reclassified as an asset held for sale.
In March 2014 the Group received proceeds of 236m 198m on disposal of its investment.
No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2013 14: nil.
Details of the remaining significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: Principal place Class of of business % interest held shares owned Main activity Principal joint ventures 1 Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey50% Ordinary Retailing Principal associates 1 Crealfi S. A. France49% Ordinary Finance 1 This company prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 2014 15 2013 14 millions Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total Non-current assets 22 2 24 21 2 23 Current assets 53 62 115 47 81 128 Current liabilities 42 53 95 35 69 104 Non-current liabilities 16 16 13 2 15 Share of net assets 17 11 28 20 12 32 Sales 160 12 172 166 631 797 Operating expenses 151 10 161 155 603 758 Operating profit 92 11 11 28 39 Net finance costs 4 4 3 6 9 Profit before taxation 527 8 22 30 Income tax expense 1 1 2 1 7 8 Share of post-tax results before impairment 415 7 15 22 Exceptional impairment 45 45 Share of post-tax results 4 1 5 7 30 23 17 Inventories millions 2014 15 2013 14 Finished goods for resale 2,021 2,054 Included within finished goods for resale is a deduction for unearned rebates to reflect inventories that have not been sold at the balance sheet date.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2015 is 6,373m 2013 14: 6,461m.
18 Trade and other receivables millions 2014 15 2013 14 Non-current Prepayments 5 11 Property receivables 1 2 Other receivables 1 2 7 15 Current Trade receivables 63 64 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 8 9 Net trade receivables 55 55 Property receivables 2 3 Prepayments 121 137 Other receivables 359 395 537 590 Trade and other receivables 544 605 Other receivables principally comprise rebates due from suppliers.
The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 110 Accounts 19 Short-term deposits millions 2014 15 2013 14 Short-term deposits 48 Short-term deposits comprise bank deposits with original maturities of between three and 12 months.
The fair values of short-term deposits approximate to their carrying amounts.
20 Cash and cash equivalents millions 2014 15 2013 14 Cash at bank and in hand 171 238 Other cash and cash equivalents 390 297 561 535 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
The Group enters into multi-currency net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
21 Trade and other payables millions 2014 15 2013 14 Current Trade payables 1,366 1,403 Other taxation and social security 196 227 Deferred income 119 220 Contract to purchase own shares 50 Deposit received in advance of B&Q China disposal 12 Accruals and other payables 580 636 2,323 2,486 Non-current Accruals and other payables 64 86 Trade and other payables 2,387 2,572 The contract to purchase own shares relates to a liability arising under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase of the Companys own shares see note 28.
Accruals include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Borrowings millions 2014 15 2013 14 Current Bank overdrafts 91 1 Bank loans 2 3 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 75 Finance leases 12 15 105 94 Non-current Bank loans 9 11 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 183 172 Finance leases 40 47 232 230 Borrowings 337 324 Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current bank loans mature within the next 12 months.
These are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of three years 2013 14: three years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 3.1% 2013 14: 2.8%.
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt Medium Term Notes MTNs were issued in prior years under the Groups 2,500m MTN programme and further notes issued as a US Private Placement USPP.
In December 2014 the Sterling MTN of 73m was repaid.
2014 15 2013 14 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying millions outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount amount 1 Sterling MTN 15 12 14 5.63% 5.8% 75 2 US Dollar USPP $68m 24 05 16 6.30% 6.3% 47 45 2 US Dollar USPP $179m 24 05 18 6.40% 6.4% 136 127 183 247 1 Swapped to floating rate Euro based on 3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
This was fully repaid in December 2014.
2 $247m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Group values its MTNs and USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the MTNs and USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 31 January 2015, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups MTNs and USPP carrying amounts by 19m 2013 14: 25m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 112 Accounts 22 Borrowings continued Finance leases The Group leases certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is seven years 2013 14: seven years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2013 14: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 Present value Minimum Present value Minimum millions of payments payments of payments payments Less than one year 12 15 15 17 One to five years 23 32 28 39 More than five years 17 22 19 26 Total 52 69 62 82 Less amounts representing finance charges 17 20 Present value of minimum lease payments 52 62 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.7% 2013 14: 8.4%.
Fair value millions 2014 15 2013 14 Bank overdrafts 91 1 Bank loans 12 16 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 190 254 Finance leases 68 79 Borrowings 361 350 Where available, market values have been used to determine the fair values of borrowings.
Where market values are not available or are not reliable, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in Level 1 inputs for the Medium Term Notes and Level 2 inputs for other borrowings as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13 Fair value measurements.
23 Derivatives The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Fair value hedges 54 33 Cash flow hedges 54 8 Non-designated hedges 4 7 112 18 Non-current assets 52 40 Current assets 70 5 Current liabilities 10 27 112 18 The Group holds the following financial instruments at fair value: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Cross currency interest rate swaps 54 42 Foreign exchange contracts 68 3 Derivative assets 122 45 www.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Derivatives continued millions 2014 15 2013 14 Cross currency interest rate swaps 9 Foreign exchange contracts 10 18 Derivative liabilities 10 27 The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by Level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 January 2015 net derivative assets included in net cash amount to 57m 2013 14: 27m net derivative assets.
Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise cross currency interest rate swap contracts that convert US Private Placement fixed rate debt into floating rate liabilities.
At 31 January 2015 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 164m 2013 14: 307m.
During the year, cross-currency interest rate swaps have matured to coincide with repayments of underlying debt.
The Sterling equivalent amount of those matured swaps at year end exchange rates was 150m.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 31 January 2015 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 603m 2013 14: 419m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Gains of 5m 2013 14: 9m losses have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Non-designated hedges The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
At 31 January 2015 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 704m 2013 14: 813m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short-term foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
The Group enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with over-thecounter derivatives.
These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties to settle cash flows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: Net amounts of Gross amounts of Gross amounts derivatives derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 31 January 2015 Derivative assets 122 122 10 112 Derivative liabilities 10 10 10 At 1 February 2014 Derivative assets 45 45 27 18 Derivative liabilities 27 27 27 Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 114 Accounts 24 Financial risk management Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland and Russia.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and consider effective risk management solutions.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its debt and cash using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2015 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 36 179 19 11 164 291 51 291 Fair value adjustments to net cash 19 19 Financing derivatives 723 341 185 161 93 57 Net cash 36 544 19 330 2 452 144 329 At 1 February 2014 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 111 175 28 99 150 78 173236 Fair value adjustments to net cash 3 22 25 Financing derivatives 75 763 201 173 233 108 27 Net cash 39 588 28 300 1 311 281 238 www.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
2014 15 2013 14 Net finance Net finance costs costs Income Income millions costs costs Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Sterling 5 6 Euro 3 3 US Dollar 5 3 Polish Zloty 2 2 Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation of financial instruments.
2014 15 2013 14 Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow hedges hedges millions Increase Increase Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges US Dollar against Sterling 36 17 US Dollar against Euro 25 20 US Dollar against Polish Zloty 3 2 The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases occur.
See note 23 for further details.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 January 2015 and 1 February 2014 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next five years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 116 Accounts 24 Financial risk management continued The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables and short term foreign exchange contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 January 2015 Bank overdrafts 91 91 Bank loans 2 3 3 2 2 12 Other fixed term debt 10 54 8 123 195 Finance leases 15 12 8 7 5 22 69 Derivatives receipts 10 54 8 123 195 Derivatives payments 1 38 2 98 139 At 1 February 2014 Bank overdrafts 1 1 Bank loans 3 2 3 4 2 14 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 86 10 49 7 112 264 Finance leases 17 15 11 7 6 26 82 Derivatives receipts 86 10 49 7 112 264 Derivatives payments 87 2 39 3 99 230 At 31 January 2015 the Group has an undrawn revolving committed facility of 200m which matures in August 2016.
The 200m facility contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2015. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with the strongest short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 31 January 2015, the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was 38m 2013 14: 50m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of cash at bank and short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 31 January 2015, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 49m 2013 14: 50m, of which 4m 2013 14: 4m are over 120 days past due.
Refer to note 36 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 23.
25 Deferred tax millions 2014 15 2013 14 Deferred tax assets 10 12 Deferred tax liabilities 329 251 319 239 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Deferred tax continued PostAccelerated tax Gains on employment millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benefits Other Total At 2 February 2014 151 114 19 7 5 5 239 Charge credit to income statement 6 8 8 2 1 4 11 Charge to equity 1 92 19 112 Transfers to liabilities held for sale China 9 9 Exchange differences 13 6 3 1 3 12 At 31 January 2015 144 91 23 4 101 10 319 At 3 February 2013 136 132 20 8 57 11 286 Charge credit to income statement 24 17 2 2 4 7 Charge credit to equity 1 51 2 48 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Exchange differences 9 4 2 1 1 9 At 1 February 2014 151 114 19 7 5 5 239 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 259m 2013 14: 221m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 20m 2013 14: 22m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 239m 2013 14: 199m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses arising in Portugal of 3m which can be carried forward only in the next one to twelve years.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 3,384m 2013 14: 3,331m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This is because the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and therefore no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
26 Provisions Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total At 2 February 2014 29 25 54 Charge to income statement 11 11 Utilised in the year 4 13 17 Unwinding of discount 1 1 Transfers to liabilities held for sale China 3 3 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 January 2015 26 21 47 Current liabilities 4 9 13 Non-current liabilities 22 12 34 26 21 47 Within the onerous property contracts provisions, Kingfisher has provided against future liabilities for properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties, along with properties acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries at above-market rents.
Such provisions exclude those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK and Ireland restructuring programmes.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 118 Accounts 27 Post-employment benefits The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK.
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature, and the principal overseas defined contribution scheme is in China.
The overseas schemes are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Charge to operating profit 28 27 From July 2012 an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employer appointed directors, one independent director and four member nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group Pensions Department of Kingfisher plc.
The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience is worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 36m from April 2014.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the 20 year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits continued Income statement 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Amounts charged credited to operating profit Current service cost 27 9 2 7 9 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Curtailment gain 9 9 5 2 3 5 7 12 Amounts charged credited to net finance costs Net interest expense income 12 3 4 2 2 Total charged credited to income statement 6 6 1 9 10 A curtailment gain of 9m has been recognised in relation to the closure of a senior executive scheme in France.
Of the net charge to operating profit, a 7m charge 2013 14: 8m charge and 4m credit 2013 14: 4m charge are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Balance sheet 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,606 97 2,703 2,135 92 2,227 Fair value of scheme assets 2,800 15 2,815 2,106 21 2,127 Net surplus deficit in schemes 194 82 112 29 71 100 Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Net deficit surplus in schemes at beginning of year 29 71 100 71 71 Current service cost 2 7 9 2 7 9 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Curtailment gain 9 9 Net interest expense income 1 2 3 4 2 2 Net actuarial gains losses 194 19 175 131 4 127 Contributions paid by employer 35 1 36 32 1 33 Exchange differences 7 7 4 4 Net surplus deficit in schemes at end of year 194 82 112 29 71 100 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year 2,135 92 2,227 1,994 93 2,087 Current service cost 2 7 9 2 7 9 Curtailment gain 9 9 Interest expense 93 3 96 90 3 93 Actuarial losses gains changes in financial assumptions 471 20 491 8 5 3 Actuarial gains changes in demographic assumptions 16 16 Actuarial gains losses experience adjustments 30 1 31 120 1 121 Benefits paid 65 7 72 63 1 64 Exchange differences 8 8 6 6 Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 2,606 97 2,703 2,135 92 2,227 Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 120 Accounts 27 Post-employment benefits continued The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligation is 62% 2013 14: 62% in respect of deferred members and 38% 2013 14: 38% in respect of current pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 21 years 2013 14: 21 years.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 2,106 21 2,127 2,065 22 2,087 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Interest income 92 1 93 94 1 95 Actuarial gains losses actual return less interest income 635 635 19 19 Contributions paid by employer 35 1 36 32 1 33 Benefits paid 65 7 72 63 1 64 Exchange differences 1 1 2 2 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 2,800 15 2,815 2,106 21 2,127 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total Government bonds 1,262 1,262 45% 741 741 35% Corporate bonds 706 706 25% 650 650 31% UK equities 59 59 2% 73 73 3% Overseas equities 394 394 14% 443 443 20% Property 28 28 1% 32 32 2% Cash and other 351 15 366 13% 167 21 188 9% Total fair value of scheme assets 2,800 15 2,815 100% 2,106 21 2,127 100% All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 165m 2013 14: 157m of property and other assets.
Interest rate and inflation rate swaps are employed in the UK scheme to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds for liability risk management purposes and are included in the Corporate bonds category above.
The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 36m.
Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is derived using a single equivalent discount rate approach, based on the yields available on a portfolio of high-quality sterling corporate bonds with the same duration to that of the scheme liabilities.
2014 15 2013 14 Annual % rate UK Overseas UK Overseas Discount rate 3.0 1.8 4.4 3.2 Price inflation 2.8 2.0 3.3 2.0 Rate of pension increases 2.7 3.1 Salary escalation n a 2.5 n a 2.3 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme from 2010 to 2013.
The base mortality assumptions have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables SAPS tables projected forward to 2013 using the CMI 2013 core projection improvement factors, as published by the UK actuarial profession.
In addition, allowance has been made for future increases in life expectancy.
The allowance is in line with CMI 2013 improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.25% pa for males and 1.0% pa for females.
These improvements take into account trends observed within the scheme over the past decade and general population trends.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits continued The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: Years 2014 15 2013 14 Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now Male 86.7 86.7 Female 87.3 87.3 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Male 87.4 87.4 Female 88.6 88.6 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 53m Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 46m Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 47m Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 94m Due to the asset-liability matching investment strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation would be significantly offset by movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.
28 Share capital Number of ordinary Ordinary shares share capital millions millions At 2 February 2014 2,376 373 New shares issued under share schemes 3 1 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 29 5 At 31 January 2015 2,350 369 At 3 February 2013 2,372 373 New shares issued under share schemes 4 At 1 February 2014 2,376 373 5 Ordinary shares have a par value of 15 7 pence per share.
During the year the Group purchased 29 million of the Companys own shares for cancellation at a cost of 100m as part of its capital returns programme.
At 31 January 2015 the Group had an additional contractual commitment of 50m to purchase the Companys own shares under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement and therefore 150m is recorded within the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 122 Accounts 29 Other reserves Cash flow hedge Translation millions reserve reserve Other Total At 2 February 2014 5 112 159 266 Currency translation differences Group 309 309 Joint ventures and associates 2 2 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 70 70 Gains transferred to inventories 5 5 Tax on items that may be reclassified 19 5 14 Other comprehensive income for the year 46 306 260 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 5 5 At 31 January 2015 41 194 164 11 At 3 February 2013 8 374 159 525 Currency translation differences Group 210 210 Joint ventures and associates 25 25 Transferred to income statement 31 31 Cash flow hedges Fair value losses 4 4 Losses transferred to inventories 9 9 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 4 2 Other comprehensive income for the year 3 262 259 At 1 February 2014 5 112 159 266 The other category of reserve represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993, the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993 and the capital redemption reserve.
30 Share-based payments 2014 15 2013 14 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price Options price Number Number Outstanding at beginning of year 38,123,624 0.61 62,167,023 0.39 1, 2 Granted during the year 13,371,999 1.09 6,279,763 1.37 Forfeited during the year 14,117,788 0.27 9,569,630 0.27 Exercised during the year 10,799,978 0.57 20,753,532 0.33 Outstanding at end of year 26,577,857 1.05 38,123,624 0.61 Exercisable at end of year 1,557,515 0.87 2,731,735 0.41 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2015 and 1 February 2014 in respect of share-based payments includes the first year's charge of the 2015 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan 'KISP' Deferred Bonus Award and 2014 Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme 'KISS' grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISP Deferred Bonus Award and KISS are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price KISS, KISP, Kingfisher Performance Share Plan 'PSP' and discounted Sharesave options see below.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Information on the share schemes is given in note 16 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is 3.49 2013 14: 3.53.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 3.15 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.6 years 2013 14: 2.9 years.
The Group recognised a total expense of 11m in the year ended 31 January 2015 2013 14: 7m relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
Details of the CSOP element of the award are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISP, KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of grant.
Expiry of overseas KISS schemes is 6 months from the date of vesting.
Expiry of overseas KISP Long Term Incentive Award schemes is 1 year from the date of vesting.
3 Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 124 Accounts 31 Cash generated by operations millions 2014 15 2013 14 Operating profit 652 736 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 5 8 Depreciation and amortisation 262 261 Impairment losses 30 2 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property, property held for sale and intangible assets 20 1 Share-based compensation charge 11 7 Increase in inventories 150 31 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 12 60 Increase in trade and other payables 53 118 Movement in provisions 6 29 Movement in post-employment benefits 33 21 Cash generated by operations 806 976 32 Net cash millions 2014 15 2013 14 Cash and cash equivalents 561 535 Bank overdrafts 91 1 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 470 534 Short-term deposits 48 Bank loans 11 14 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 183 247 Financing derivatives 57 27 Finance leases 52 62 Net cash 329 238 millions 2014 15 2013 14 Net cash at beginning of year 238 38 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 55 153 Increase in short-term deposits 48 Repayment of bank loans 2 89 Repayment of Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 73 33 Payment receipt on financing derivatives 9 6 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 14 13 Cash flow movement in net cash 201 282 Borrowings acquired 35 Transfers to assets held for sale China 57 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 53 47 Net cash at end of year 329 238 www.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Acquisitions In the prior year, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the Bricostore Romania companies from Group Bresson, a French retail company.
Consideration of 51m comprised 35m cash and a further 16m non-cash element, representing the obligation to assume a liability of the vendor.
Goodwill of 18m was recognised on net assets of 33m, representing a strategic premium to strengthen the Groups position in Eastern Europe and anticipated synergies that will arise from the acquisition.
millions Fair value amounts recognised of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Other intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment 60 Inventories 29 Trade and other receivables 22 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Trade and other payables 34 Current tax liabilities 3 Deferred tax assets 1 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Borrowings 35 Provisions 11 Total identifiable net assets acquired 33 Goodwill 18 Total consideration 51 The acquisition amounts recorded in the consolidated cash flow statement in the prior year were: millions Cash consideration 35 Cash acquired 7 Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 Immediately following the acquisition, Kingfisher settled Bricostore Romanias borrowings of 35m included within repayment of loans in the cash flow statement.
Acquisition related fees of 2m were charged in the consolidated income statement in the prior year.
Owing to local conditions, Bricostore Romania prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
In the period from 31 May 2013 to 31 December 2013, it contributed sales of 72m and a retail profit of 1m.
If the acquisition had occurred at the start of the financial year, the Groups sales would have been 11,163m and Group operating profit, after exceptional items, would have been 734m for the year ended 1 February 2014.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 126 Accounts 34 Assets and liabilities held for sale millions 2014 15 2013 14 Assets held for sale 274 208 Liabilities held for sale 195 79 208 On 22 December 2014, Kingfisher announced a binding agreement to sell a controlling 70% stake in its B&Q China business to Wumei Holdings Inc for a total cash consideration of 140m.
The agreement followed Kingfishers previous announcement of its plans to look for a strategic partner to help develop its B&Q business in China.
The transaction is conditional on MOFCOM Chinese Ministry of Commerce approval and, if approved, is expected to close during the first half of Kingfishers 2015 16 financial year.
On completion, a 12m deposit received in the current year would be repaid.
As part of the terms of the transaction, Kingfisher would have the option following the second anniversary of the completion of the transaction, or sooner where agreed by both parties, to sell the remaining 30% economic interest to Wumei Holdings Inc for a fixed price of the Sterling equivalent of RMB 582m 62m at year end exchange rate.
At the balance sheet date, Kingfisher was subject to certain contractual restrictions over B&Q Chinas assets and liabilities as part of the agreement.
Following the announcement the B&Q China business assets and liabilities were classified as a disposal group held for sale.
The business is presented within the Other International reporting segment.
Assets and liabilities held for sale also include freehold properties in Brazil.
Prior year assets held for sale comprised the Groups 21% investment in Hornbach, which was subsequently sold in March 2014 for 236m 198m, and a UK freehold property asset.
35 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Less than one year 409 460 One to five years 1,406 1,571 More than five years 1,933 2,347 3,748 4,378 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2014 15 2013 14 Less than one year 15 31 One to five years 41 101 More than five years 48 104 104 236 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 73m 2013 14: 197m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 57m 2013 14: 31m.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Contingent liabilities The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, only 1m 2013 14: 1m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
37 Related party transactions During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2014 15 2013 14 Income Receivable Income Receivable millions expense payable expense payable Transactions with Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 1.2 0.2 1.2 0.6 Transactions with Hornbach Holding A. G. in which the Group held a 21% interest Commission and other income n a n a 0.3 Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 6.6 1.5 7.1 0.4 Transactions with Kingfisher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 1.3 0.4 0.8 0.1 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 27.
38 Post balance sheet events On 23 July 2014 Kingfisher entered into a binding agreement with the principal shareholders of Mr Bricolage to acquire their shareholdings subject to satisfactory French anti-trust clearance.
This agreement made provision that it would lapse if the anti-trust clearance was not obtained by 31 March 2015 and an extension was not agreed by all parties.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, it has become clear that the anti-trust clearance will not be obtained by 31 March 2015 and therefore the July 2014 agreement will lapse on that date.
Consequently the transaction will not proceed.
