Financial statements Shareholder information 2016 Financial calendar Share dealing service A share dealing service for Ladbrokes shares is available Record date for 2015 final dividend 29 March 2016 through The Share Centre Ltd, a member of the London Annual General Meeting 5 May 2016 StockExchange, which is authorised and regulated by the Payment date for 2015 final dividend 12 May 2016 Financial Conduct Authority.
For further details, please contact: Announcement of half-year results and The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Aylesbury, BucksHP21 8PB: 2016 interim dividend 4 August 2016 Telephone: 01296 414141.
Record date for 2016 interim dividend 23 September 2016 Payment date for 2016 interim dividend 10 November 2016 American depositary receipts ADRs Provisional date.
Ladbrokes has a sponsored level 1 ADR programme for which Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as depositary.
Dividends The ADRs are traded on the Over the Counter market in the From April 2016, dividend tax credits will be replaced by an USunder the symbol LDBKY, where one ADR is equal to annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an oneordinary share.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals thedepositary makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent toADR holders.
ontheir income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
UK tax on capital gains TheCompany will continue to provide shareholders with Information for UK capital gains tax purposes, which confirmation of the dividends paid to them and this should includesdetails of rights and capitalisation issues which beincluded with any other dividend income received when haveccurred since 31 March 1982, is available at calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
Contact details Details of dividends paid in the past can be found on the Shareholders Companys website at www.
For queries regarding your shareholding, please contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC: Direct credit of dividend payments Ladbrokes is keen to encourage all its shareholders to By telephone: 44 0 370 702 0127 havetheir dividends paid directly into their bank or building By email: web.
co. uk If you want your dividends to be paid directly into your UK In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC, account, you should apply online at www.
co. uk The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ or contact our Registrar for a dividend mandate form.
ADR holders The overseas global dividend service provided by our Registrar Registered ADR holders should contact the Ladbrokes enables shareholders living overseas to have their dividend paid ADRshareholder services line: directly into their bank account for a fee.
For further details please visit www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and By telephone: 1 866 249 2593 Payments tab followed by Global Payment Service.
com Dividend reinvestment plan The Company provides a dividend reinvestment plan, which enables shareholders to apply all of their cash dividends to buy additional shares in Ladbrokes.
For more information and a mandate to join the plan, visit www.
co. uk or Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
The Company is aware of shareholders receiving Manage your shareholding online unsolicited calls or correspondence concerning investment You can view and manage your shareholding online at by matters.
Calls are typically from people stating they are registering for an online account with our Registrar.
Thisservice brokers based overseas and they offer to buy the allows you to view your share portfolio and see thelatest market individuals shares at inflated prices claiming that there is price of your shares, check your dividend payments and tax asecret takeover or merger.
Shareholders are advised to information, change your address, updatepayment instructions be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to sell or buy and receive your shareholder communications electronically.
their shares or offers of free company reports.
Operations To register for an account, visitwww.
co. uk and to buy shares at inflated prices or to sell what often turn click on the register tab.
Toset up an account you will need outto be worthless, high risk or even non-existent shares your Shareholder Reference Number which can be found on are commonly known as boiler room scams.
your Proxy Form and postcode.
More detailed information on boiler room scams is Shareholders are encouraged to be notified by email when your available at www.
If you communications are available online.
By providing your email thinkyou have been contacted by share fraudsters, address youwill no longer receive paper copies of annual youcan report the matter to the Financial Conduct reports or anyother shareholder communications.
Instead you Authority by calling 44 0 800 111 6768 or by completing will receive an email advising you when and how to access documents online.
the online formavailable at www.
