Financial statements Glossary ABB Net Revenue Association of British Bookmakers.
Gross win less fair value adjustments, e. g. fair value of reward points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate Actives income.
The number of individuals who have placed a bet during theyear.
Operating profit Profit before net finance expense, tax and exceptional items.
Bet in Play Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on OTC out-comes during a live event.
Category B2 gaming machine POC Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum Point of consumption tax.
Real Money Sign-up Category B3 gaming machine A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an Gaming machine with maximum stake of 2 and maximum account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by prize of 500. shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of business according to where they first register on the gaming site.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Responsible Gambling Trust A charity that funds treatment, education and research related Gambling Act to problem gambling.
The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
SIS Satellite Information Services Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television GamCare programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
SSBTs Gambling Commission Self Service Betting Terminals.
Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and The Coral Group lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and The proposed merger between Gala Coral Group Limited and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and Ladbrokes plc is with certain businesses of Gala Coral, including vulnerable people.
Coral Retail, Eurobet Retail and Gala Corals online business.
Gaming Machines Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Gambling Act.
Gross Win Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission, i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
MGD Machine Games Duty MGD is charged at 25% of the gross profit generated from machine games.
com Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Ladbrokes plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
