LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 163 12 POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The movement for the year in the statement of comprehensive income is: 2015 2014 m m Other actuarial gains 2.7 5.5 Movement in disallowed assets 0.8 2.2 1.9 3.3 EXPECTED CASH FLOWS Over the year to 31 December 2016 the Company is expected to contribute 34.4% of pensionable salaries in respect of Ordinary Section members and 62.8% of pensionable salaries in respect of Executive Section members of the Laird Pension Scheme.
In addition, the Company will meet the cost of Pension Protection Levies, death in service premiums and other administration expenses associated with the Laird Pension Scheme.
The Company estimates that the total value of contributions to the defined benefit schemes will be 0.1m in 2016.
The average duration of the liabilities of the Laird Pension Scheme is approximately 16 years.
KEY RISKS The ultimate cost of the schemes to the Company will depend upon actual future events rather than the assumptions made.
Many of the assumptions made are unlikely to be borne out in practice and as such the cost of the schemes may be higher or lower than disclosed.
In general, the risk to the Company is that the assumptions underlying the disclosures, or the calculation of contribution requirements are not borne out in practice and the cost to the Company is higher than expected.
More specifically, some of the significant risks are detailed below: Asset volatility: The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields whereas the schemes hold a mixture of investments: if assets underperform the corporate bond yield, this may create a deficit.
Inflation risk: The majority of the benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
Changes in corporate bond yields: A fall in corporate bond yields will lead to an increase in liabilities.
This will be only partially offset by an increase in the value of the corporate bonds held by the schemes.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The results in these disclosures are inherently volatile, particularly the figures shown on the balance sheet.
The table below shows the approximate sensitivity of the balance sheet position to changes in assumptions to illustrate this volatility.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 6.5m Inflation Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by 3.5m Increase by 0.5% Increase by 3.5m Assumed life expectancy at age 65 0.25% reduction in the long term trend of Decrease by 1.0m 1.5%to 1.25% METHODS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The sensitivity analysis shown above has been calculated based on approximate adjustments to the scheme liabilities using a consistent methodology with that used to calculate the liabilities.
The impact on the liabilities has been rounded to the nearest 0.5m.
The sensitivity analysis to price inflation includes the impact of a change in both Retail Price Inflation and Consumer Price Inflation, as well as those assumptions which are derived relative to these measures salary increase, revaluation of deferredpensions and increases to pensions in payment.
For this purpose it has been assumed that the differences between RPI CPI and these related assumptions remains the same unless there are any caps or floors on the pension increases, in which case these have been applied.
