LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 84 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Laird PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at31 December 2015 and of the Groups result for the year then ended.
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Laird PLCs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year thenended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 35 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition across the Groups diverse global operations, including the risk of management override.
Tax transfer pricing exposure relating to the Groups key operational locations.
The recognition of exceptional items relating to the Groups major restructuring activities.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific accounts for a further eight components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 80% of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities 2014, 76%, 80% of Revenue 2014, 78% and 90% of Total assets 2014, 82%.
For the remaining components we have performed review and other procedures as appropriate.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3m, which represents 5% of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items.
