LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition across the Groups At each of the Groups locations in scope for revenue, Based on our audit procedures diverse global operations, including the we performed the following audit procedures in respect we concluded that revenue is riskof management override 630m, of revenue recognition.
accordance with IAS 18, and We walked through and tested the operating that therewas no evidence of Refer to accounting policies page 98 : effectiveness of the controls designed by the Group managementoverride.
and note 4 of the consolidated financial and operated by the location relating to the recognition statements page 107. of revenue as applicable.
There continues to be pressure on the We discussed any new, or changes in, customer Group to meet expectations and targets, relationships with management and obtained relevant especially given the softening of some of the documentation as necessary.
Management reward We tested a sample of revenue items recognised and incentive schemes based on achieving across the year obtaining source documentation to profit targets may also place pressure to corroborate the nature and timing of the transaction.
We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue Sales arrangements are generally transactions around the year end date, to corroborate straightforward, requiring minimal judgement that they were recognised in the appropriate period.
Detailed analytical review procedures were performed An area of particular focus is the cut-off risk to identify significant fluctuations and trends.
Where that revenue may be inaccurately recorded items were noted which were not in line with our and or recorded in the incorrect period.
This expectations, we obtained explanations and evidence includes the potential that management may from management and assessed whether, in our override controls to intentionally misstate the professional judgement, such items were appropriate.
nature and timing of revenue transactions.
Other audit procedures specifically designed to The risk profile of revenue recognition has address the risk of management override of controls remained consistent with the prior year.
included journal entry testing, applying particular focus to the timing of revenue transactions.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 12 locations, which covered 80% of the risk amount.
Other procedures are performed on the remaining balance as discussed in The scope of our audit section of this report.
Tax transfer pricing exposure relating We challenged managements assumptions in relation Based on our audit procedures we to theGroups key operational locations to the Groups material tax positions around the world, concluded that the tax provisions 25.5m, 2014, 23.6m.
in particular the status of transfer pricing agreements relating to transfer pricing exposures between key locations and the accounting implications are recognised and disclosed Refer to the Audit Committee report for the financial statements.
page49 : accounting policies page 100 : and note 2 of the consolidated financial This included corroborating movements in uncertain statements page 100. tax positions to underlying source documentation.
In addition, we considered the tax implications of The global nature of the Groups agreement with the relevant authorities.
operations and the presence of crossborder transactions present a complex We critically assessed through inquiry, corroboration tax environment and the potential for and consultation with EY tax specialists the level of misstatement increases as a result.
The provision in relation to the likelihood of tax payable in Group continues to engage with relevant each jurisdiction where material items remain unsettled.
tax authorities to achieve certainty over Our audit procedures also included an assessment of tax treatments.
However, when this is not the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
possible, as a consequence, provisions for ongoing matters in respect of uncertain As a Group team we have performed audit procedures taxpositions are required.
Due to the high over this area with support from our component teams level of judgement and potential effect on in specific territories.
thetax rate, we recognise a risk in this area.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 86 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The recognition of exceptional items We performed audit procedures over the restructuring Based on our audit procedures we relating to the Groups major restructuring provision to test that the requirements of IAS 37 and concluded that the exceptional activities.
IAS 19 for employee termination benefits had been charge and provision relating to appropriately met in recognition of the provision.
the Groups major restructuring Refer to the Audit Committee report activities are recognised and disclosed page50 : Accounting policies page 102 : We reviewed the wording of the public announcement in accordance with the Groups and note 7 of the consolidated financial on 29 October 2015, as well as communications to accounting policy for exceptional statements page 109. employees, to check that the recognition criteria of items.
Exceptional items primarily relate to a Groupwide restructuring project to rationalise the We obtained evidence for a sample of termination Groups operations in the US and Europe.
agreements, other employee-related costs and property exit costs.
Because of the nature and magnitude of the other exceptional items which have We assessed the valuation of assets to check that no been recognised in 2015 we do not consider further impairment was required.
themto be part of this risk of misstatement.
We examined the estimate of tax charges on closure of sites in each territory to check that estimated tax provisions were appropriate.
We checked that these items were excluded from underlying profit and disclosed appropriately in the annual accounts, and in accordance with the FRC disclosure requirements.
As a Group team we performed audit procedures over this risk area.
In the prior year, our auditors report included risks of material misstatement in relation to the following matters which we do not consider to be subject to the same level of risk for 2015: Valuation of Model Solution put and call options these were initially recognised and valued in 2014.
For the current year the valuation calculation for these options is established and is not significantly sensitive to a change of assumptions.
As such, we do not consider this a risk as defined above for the purposes of our audit report.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets the market capitalisation of the Group as at the balance sheet date has significantly increased above the net asset value of the Group.
Furthermore, based on our review of the Groups value in use, we believe that the risk of impairment is not subject to the same level of risk as in previous years.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 98 reporting components of the Group, weselected 14 components covering entities within the UK, the USA, the Czech Republic, Germany, China and South Korea, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components fullscope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining eight components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87 We consider revenue, profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities and total assets to be key measures for the Group.
We calculated profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities.
Included in full and specific scopes are three loss-making components.
2015 2014 Number of components subject to full audits 6 6 Number of components subject to specific scope audit procedures 8 10 Coverage of revenue from full scope components 53% 52% Coverage of revenue from specific scope components 27% 26% Coverage of revenue from full and specific scope components 80% 78% Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted 52% 57% for loss-making entities from full scope components Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted 28% 19% for loss-making entities from specific scope components Coverage of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted 80% 76% for loss-making entities from full and specific scope components Coverage of total assets from full scope components 81% 70% Coverage of total assets from specific scope components 9% 12% Coverage of total assets from full and specific scope components 90% 82% Of the remaining 84 components that together represent 20% of the Groups profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities, none are individually greater than 6% of the Groups profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities.
For these components, to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we performed other procedures, including: Assigning a review scope to the next largest component representing 6% of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, adjusted for loss-making entities, to identify any unusual transactions or indicators of misstatement.
Performing specified procedures over the accounts receivable balance of the Groups new acquisition, LS Research LSR.
Centralised assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of entity-level controls.
Testing of the Group consolidation, consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency recalculations centrally.
A review of internal audit reports for any higher risk indicators.
Testing procedures at the finance shared service centres which included those components not designated as full or specific scope.
An analysis of significant variances in key financial statement line items year-on-year: and following up.
For example, we obtained evidence of existence for a cash balance which had moved significantly.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 88 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX EXCLUDING NONRECURRING ITEMS ADJUSTED REVENUE FORLOSSMAKING ENTITIES TOTAL ASSETS 10% 20% 20% 9% 53% 52% 27% 28% 81% Full scope components Specific scope components Other procedures The audit scope responded to the risks identified in the section above as described in the individual risk sections.
Changes from the prior year There are two fewer specific scope components than in the prior year.
In the prior year one component was designated specific scope for a one-off transaction and the other component has decreased as a proportion of the total Group.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY and big 4 firms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the Group audit team and the remainder by component audit teams.
For the eight specific scope components the Group audit team performed the work for one component.
For the remaining seven components the work was performed by component auditors.
We determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each full scope component at least once a year and mostly twice.
We also visited the Groups new acquisition, LSR.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to the component teams in the USA, the Czech Republic, China and South Korea.
These visits involved: Discussing the audit approach and the relevant financial statement risks with the component team.
Meeting with local management and attending planning and closing meetings.
Reviewing key audit working papers on the relevant financial statement risk areas.
The Group team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Last year the Group acquired Model Solution, a South Korean entity, of which EY is not the auditor.
In 2015 the Group audit team instructed the local auditor a member firm within the network of another Big 4 firm to perform specific audit procedures designed to address the risks of material misstatement as outlined above and satisfied ourselves that their audit methodology was appropriate, along with their professional competency.
The Group audit team performed the review procedures detailed above.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
The materiality we applied in the course of our audit was: 2015 2014 Materiality 3,000,000 2,400,000 Performance materiality 2,250,000 1,175,000 Audit differences reported 150,000 120,000 We initially determined materiality for the Group as approximately 5% 2014, 5% of profit before tax excluding non-recurring items.
We used profit before tax excluding non-recurring items, to exclude non-recurring items, namely thetotal of those amounts as described in note 7 to the accounts.
The increase in materiality year on year is due to the increase in the Groups profit before tax excluding non-recurring items.
Starting basis Profit before tax 15.4m Adjustment Non-recurring items, namely exceptional costs of 45.0m as per note 7 Materiality Totals 60.4m Materiality of 3m 5% of materiality basis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and as the actual profit did not differ significantly we retained materiality at 3m.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2014, 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.25m 2014,1.18m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components where full and specific procedures were performed was 0.6m to 1.4m 2014, 0.5m to 1.1m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 150,000 2014, 120,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no information in the Annual Report is: exceptions toreport.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements.
Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns toreport.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: We have no exceptions The Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 81, toreport.
andlonger-term viability, set out on page 81.
The part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified forour review.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91 STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THESOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY SAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material We have nothing reporting to add or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add orto draw The Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out attention to.
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
EAMONN MCGRATH SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON 1 MARCH 2016 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Laird PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 92 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Continuing operations 4 Revenue Performance Materials 394.8 366.1 Wireless Systems 235.6 198.8 630.4 564.9 Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 80.7 71.2 16 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13.2 13.3 7 Exceptional items 45.0 0.7 6 Operating profit 22.5 58.6 10 Finance revenue 0.6 0.5 10 Finance costs 8.4 8.5 10 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 0.5 2.5 34 Other net finance revenue pension 0.2 Profit before tax 15.4 48.1 11 Taxation 23.0 2.1 Loss profit for the year 7.6 50.2 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent company 8.3 50.1 Non-controlling interests 0.7 0.1 7.6 50.2 12 Basic on loss profit for the year 3.1 p 18.8p 12 Diluted on loss profit for the year 3.1 p 18.6p 13 Underlying profit before tax Continuing 73.1 63.2 Underlying basic earnings per share Basic from continuing operations 21.8p 19.1p Diluted from continuing operations 21.6p 18.9p attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and UScapitalised development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93 GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Loss profit for the year 7.6 50.2 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 34 Net re-measurement gains on retirement benefit obligations 3.0 2.8 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on retranslation of overseas net investments 20.4 26.0 Exchange differences on net investment hedges 10.6 8.7 9.8 17.3 Other comprehensive income for the year 12.8 20.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 5.2 70.3 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent company 4.3 70.0 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.3 5.2 70.3 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 94 GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2015 Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company Equity Nonshare Share Retained Translation Treasury Other Controlling capital premium earnings reserve shares Reserve Total Interests Total Note m m m m m m m m m for the year ended 31 December 2014 At 1 January 2014 75.3 271.2 7.3 84.7 2.4 436.1 436.1 Profit for the year 50.1 50.1 0.1 50.2 Other comprehensive income 2.9 17.0 19.9 0.2 20.1 Total comprehensive income 53.0 17.0 70.0 0.3 70.3 Exercise of share options 0.5 0.5 0.5 29 Share based payments 1.8 1.8 1.8 Treasury shares 1.1 1.1 1.1 Vesting of LTIPs Restricted shares 1.8 1.8 Fair value of put option on acquisition 33.3 33.3 33.3 Non-controlling interests on acquisition 8.4 8.4 14 Dividends paid 32.6 32.6 32.6 At 31 December 2014 75.3 271.7 27.7 101.7 1.7 33.3 441.4 8.7 450.1 for the year ended 31 December 2015 At 1 January 2015 75.3 271.7 27.7 101.7 1.7 33.3 441.4 8.7 450.1 Profit for the year 8.3 8.3 0.7 7.6 Other comprehensive income 2.6 10.0 12.6 0.2 12.8 Total comprehensive income 5.7 10.0 4.3 0.9 5.2 Exercise of share options 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.5 29 Share based payments 2.7 2.7 2.7 Treasury shares 5.6 5.6 5.6 Vesting of LTIPs Restricted shares 4.6 4.6 Non-controlling interests dividend 1.1 1.1 14 Dividends paid 33.8 33.8 33.8 At 31 December 2015 75.4 272.1 13.7 111.7 2.7 33.3 409.5 8.5 418.0 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95 GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Assets Non-current assets 15 Property, plant and equipment 83.9 91.9 16 Intangible assets 612.5 556.2 24 Deferred tax assets 3.6 4.1 27 Derivative financial instruments 0.7 1.1 34 Retirement benefit assets 10.5 8.9 Other non-current assets 1.4 1.0 712.6 663.2 Current assets 18 Inventories 66.0 60.2 19 Trade and other receivables 148.5 146.2 Income tax receivable 0.2 1.0 15 Assets held for sale 0.5 20 Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 64.0 283.5 271.9 Liabilities Current liabilities 21 Borrowings 29.3 0.8 27 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.6 23 Trade and other payables 118.6 111.5 Current tax liabilities 6.3 2.6 26 Provisions 26.1 1.8 180.5 117.3 Net current assets 103.0 154.6 Non-current liabilities 21 Borrowings 239.5 222.7 27 Derivative financial instruments 34.0 32.6 Income tax payable 25.4 23.6 24 Deferred tax liabilities 78.7 69.6 34 Retirement benefit obligations 9.2 10.6 25 Other non-current liabilities 1.2 1.6 26 Provisions 9.6 7.0 397.6 367.7 Net assets 418.0 450.1 Capital and reserves 28 Equity share capital 75.4 75.3 Share premium 272.1 271.7 Retained loss earnings 13.7 27.7 30 Translation reserve 111.7 101.7 30 Treasury shares 2.7 1.7 Other reserves 33.3 33.3 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 409.5 441.4 Non-controlling interests 8.5 8.7 Equity 418.0 450.1 The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: D C LOCKWOOD A J QUINLAN DIRECTORS LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 96 GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m 31 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 101.3 73.3 Tax paid 15.3 13.0 Net cash flows from operating activities 86.0 60.3 Cash flow from investing activities Interest received 0.6 0.5 31 Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 33.9 19.0 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15.9 22.5 Purchase of software 2.5 Purchase of intangible assets internally developed 14.7 12.9 31 Net outflow from sale of businesses 0.2 0.3 Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 0.6 Decrease in current financial assets 1.7 Net cash flows from investing activities 66.0 52.5 Cash flows from financing activities Interest and other finance costs paid 8.3 8.1 Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 0.5 0.5 30 Purchase of treasury shares 5.6 1.1 Increase in borrowings 32.8 44.2 Dividends paid to equity shareholders of parent 33.8 32.6 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1.1 Net cash flows from financing activities 15.5 2.9 Effects of movements in foreign exchange rates 0.3 1.8 Increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year 4.8 12.5 31 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 64.0 51.5 31 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 68.8 64.0 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS Explanatory note: Simplifying the numbers...
These notes provide additional detail and explanations on the disclosures within our Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directorson 1 March 2016 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by D C Lockwood and A J Quinlan.
Laird PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION Explanatory note: This section contains details of all the basic principles used to prepare the accounts.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and accounting for pensions, which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand unless otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reporting periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill, the progress of the project to redesign the Companys operating model in respect of which exceptional provisions were established in 2015, the measurement of defined benefit pension assets and obligations, the measurement of income and deferred taxes and the measurement of put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 16.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 34.
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgements are applied in deciding the level of provisions for income taxes.
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to provisions held in the period the determination is made see note 2 Tax provisions below.
Put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries see note 27 are stated at their fair value at each balance sheet date with changes being taken through the income statement.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The accounting policies set out below have been used to prepare the financial information.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 98 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated Group comprises Laird PLC and its subsidiary undertakings the Group.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as of the same reporting date as the parent, using consistent accounting policies where appropriate.
Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of any assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, costs directly attributable to the combination were capitalised.
The identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, including those of an intangible and tangible nature and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
CURRENCY TRANSLATION The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are prepared using its functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for the period.
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements in equity.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholders equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders equity that relate to the disposed operation are transferred to the income statement.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received and excludes intra-group sales and value-added taxes and represents net invoice value.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Under IAS 19 the assets and liabilities of defined benefit pension plans are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position and the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognised in the income statement as operating costs and interest costs respectively.
Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
The assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position and the liabilities are recognised at present value using a high-quality corporate bond rate.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group applies IFRIC 14, which allows the Group to recognise a surplus in schemes where an unconditional right to a refund or benefit available in the form of reduced contribution rates exists.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The fair value of Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Medium Term Incentive Plan MTIP and Restricted Share Plan RSP shares awarded is estimated at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP, MTIP and RSP shares were awarded including market based performance conditions.
The fair value of share options granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted.
Non-market company performance and service conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
No expense is recognised for grants that do not vest and charges previously made are reversed except that an expense is recognised for grants where vesting is conditional upon a market condition and these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided all the other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms for an equity settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
In circumstances where the equity settled grant is cancelled or settled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation or settlement, and any expense not yet recognised for the grant is recognised immediately.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired intangible assets, including patents, trade secrets, brand names and customer relationships, are recognised separately from goodwill and capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
The estimated useful life of an intangible asset ranges between three and 20 years depending on its nature.
In 2015, software has been recognised separately within intangible assets.
Previously it was included under Property, Plant and Equipment note 15.
Software in the prior year has not been reclassified, because it is impracticable to do.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 100 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenditure is expensed as it is incurred, except for certain development costs, which are capitalised as intangible assets when it is probable that the development project will be commercially viable, and certain criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility have been met.
Intangible assets arising in this manner are amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically around four years.
Intangible assets relating to products in the development phase, both internally generated and externally acquired, are subject to an impairment review at each balance sheet date, or earlier should indication of impairment arise.
Any impairment losses are written off immediately to the income statement.
GOODWILL On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill set off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
INCOME TAXES Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
TAX PROVISIONS Laird recognises certain provisions and accruals in respect of tax which involve a degree of estimation and uncertainty where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached by the relevant tax authority.
As a result of this approach Laird has recognised a provision of 25.4m as at 31 December 2015 2014, 23.6m which is included within Income tax payable under Non-current liabilities in the Group statement of financial position.
The movement in the year is explained by the tax effect of the Operating Model redesign and the conclusion of overseas tax audit discussions see note 11.
This amount is sensitive to the resolution of issues which are not always within the control of the Group and are often dependent on legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can take many years to resolve and assumptions on the likely outcome have therefore been made by management.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The nature of the assumptions made by management when calculating the provision relate to the estimated tax which could be payable as a result of decisions by tax authorities in respect of transactions and events whose treatment for taxpurposes is uncertain.
In making the estimates, managements judgement was based on various factors, including: the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries: the results of previous claims of a similar nature: any changes to the relevant tax legislation or its interpretation locally: and any other relevant changes to the tax environment.
When making this assessment, we utilise our specialist in-house tax knowledge and experience of similar situations elsewhere to confirm these provisions.
These judgements also take into consideration specialist tax advice provided bythird party advisers on specific items as appropriate.
DIVIDENDS Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become alegal liability of the Company.
INTEREST Interest is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs, for example, initial delivery and handling costs and installation and assembly costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant, and equipment depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years or less Leasehold buildings 50 years or the lease term if less Computer equipment 5 years or less Motor vehicles 4 years Other plant and machinery 13 years or less A proportion of one years depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
This is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 102 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED LEASES Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
All other leases are treated as operating leases, and the related charges are expensed to the income statement evenly over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the asset.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under current, or non-current, trade and other payables.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
SEGMENT REPORTING Segments are identified on the basis of management information which is presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker to assess the performance of each segment.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS These items are presented within the relevant income statement category.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events which are considered to be material and one off in nature and therefore may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include the restructuring of businesses specifically in 2015 re-designing our operating model, the transaction costs of acquiring new businesses, gains or losses on the reassessment of estimated contingent consideration on acquired businesses, gains or losses on the reassessment of put and call options in respect of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries, the integration of new businesses, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, and asset impairments.
FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Trade and other receivables are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset and are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired.
Derivative financial assets are classified as held for trading, unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
These assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses in value being recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL LIABILITIES All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less, in the case of a liability not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Measurement after initial recognition is at amortised cost, with the changes in the carrying amount being taken through the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, these are Level 2 derivative financial instruments.
For those contracts designated as hedges, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
Net investment hedges These are used to hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in shareholders equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
Fair value measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price.
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group re-assessed its policies for measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures.
Fair value hierarchy is provided in note 27 and derivative financial instruments are Level 1 under IFRS 13 unless otherwise disclosed.
TREASURY SHARES The Laird PLC shares held in the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust and the Laird PLC Employee Benefit Trust are classified in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 104 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash in the statement of financial position comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity in three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses principally administration costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
PROVISIONS These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT APPLIED The following amendments to existing standards were adopted for the financial year but with no impact on the financial statements: IAS 19 Contributions from employees IFRS 2 Definitions of performance and service conditions At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the financial period: Effective date year starting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards could have a material impact on the amounts reported and disclosures made on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application and plan to adopt these standards in line with their effective dates.
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effects until a detailed review is completed.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Explanatory note: The reportable segments for continuing operations as defined by IFRS 8 are Performance Materials and Wireless Systems.
The financial performance of each segment is shown here with further information provided in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 24 to 29.
Performance Materials designs and supplies a range of EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions, and signal integrity products to a wide variety of electronic devices and prototypes.
Wireless Systems designs and supplies a range of high specification wireless antennae, and machine-to-machine M2M wireless modules for a number of markets including the infrastructure and automotive markets.
Performance Materials Wireless Systems Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue from customers 394.8 366.1 235.6 198.8 630.4 564.9 Segment profit before: 57.5 54.1 30.4 24.5 87.9 78.6 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.3 5.5 7.9 7.8 13.2 13.3 Exceptional items 24.0 1.5 12.5 3.6 36.5 5.1 28.2 47.1 10.0 13.1 38.2 60.2 Unallocated costs 7.2 7.4 Unallocated exceptional items 8.5 5.8 Operating profit 22.5 58.6 Finance revenue 0.6 0.5 Finance costs 8.4 8.5 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 0.5 2.5 Other net finance revenue pension 0.2 Loss profit before tax 15.4 48.1 Taxation 23.0 2.1 Loss profit for the year 7.6 50.2 The Group did not have any inter-segment revenue in 2015 and 2014.
Revenue from one customer of the Performance Materials division and Wireless Systems division represents approximately 84.6m 2014, 83.3m of the Groups total revenues.
Unallocated costs are central costs related to managing the parent company.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Performance Materials Wireless Systems Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Segment assets 524.6 547.5 430.8 358.2 955.4 905.7 Unallocated assets 40.7 29.4 Total assets 524.6 547.5 430.8 358.2 996.1 935.1 Segment liabilities 67.0 75.5 43.4 36.0 110.4 111.5 Unallocated liabilities borrowings 268.8 223.5 other see below 198.9 150.1 Total liabilities 67.0 75.5 43.4 36.0 578.1 485.1 Other segment items Capital additions 15.8 17.0 16.8 18.6 32.6 35.6 Acquisition of businesses 41.7 38.4 38.4 41.7 Total additions 15.8 58.7 55.2 18.6 71.0 77.3 Depreciation 13.2 13.4 3.2 2.7 16.4 16.1 Amortisation write downs of intangible assets 9.1 6.6 15.5 11.5 24.6 18.1 Unallocated assets in the above table include cash and cash equivalents, retirement benefits and other debtors.
Unallocated liabilities other in the above table include liabilities for current tax, deferred tax, retirement benefits, dividends, provisions and other creditors.
Amortisation of software has been included under intangibles assets for the first time in 2015 note 16.
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION The Group managed its business segments on a global basis and the parent company is resident in the UK.
The Groups operations are based in the following territories: North America, Europe, Asia and Rest of World.
The revenue analysis in the table below is based on the location of the customer.
The analysis of non-current assets is based on the location of the assets and for this purpose consists of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107 4 REVENUE Explanatory note: This note sets out how revenue disclosed in the Group income statement was earned.
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows: 2015 2014 m m Sale of goods 630.4 564.9 No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services 2014, nil.
5 EXCHANGE RATES Explanatory note: The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using the average rates of exchange for the year as disclosed below.
The principal rates used were as follows: Average Closing 2015 2014 2015 2014 Czech Koruna 37.56 34.15 36.64 35.49 Euros 1.38 1.24 1.36 1.28 Japanese Yen 185.12 173.88 177.22 185.75 Korean Won 1728.66 1733.55 1731.64 1710.33 Renminbi RMB 9.61 10.16 9.64 9.65 Swedish Krona 12.90 11.27 12.43 12.06 US Dollars 1.53 1.65 1.47 1.56 6 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE FINANCE COSTS AND TAX Explanatory note: This note sets out the material components of the Operating profit line on our Group income statement, page 92, including a detailed breakdown of the fees we paid to our auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, in respect of services they have provided to us during the year.
2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Revenue 630.4 564.9 Cost of sales 375.0 337.4 Gross profit 255.4 227.5 Selling, administration and other expenses 187.1 127.3 Research and development expenditure net 45.8 41.6 Operating profit before finance costs and tax 22.5 58.6 Note a Included in selling, administration and other expenses is a 45.0m exceptional charge 2014, 0.7m credit as described in note 7 to the financial statements and 13.2m 2014, 13.3m of amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets.
b Included in research and development expenditure is 6.0m 2014, 4.8m of amortisation in respect of capitalised development costs.
c Cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales was 249.0m 2014, 226.4m.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 6 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE FINANCE COSTS AND TAX CONTINUED 2015 2014 Continuing Continuing operations operations m m Operating profit for the year is stated after charging the following items: Staff costs 134.4 124.1 Exceptional items Property, plant and equipment write downs 2.9 Software write downs 0.5 Capitalised development costs write downs 3.2 1.2 Inventory write downs 1.6 Restructuring costs 30.9 0.5 Acquisition contingent consideration reduction 6.9 Change in valuation of put and call options in respect of Model Solution 1.8 0.8 Patents litigation 0.6 3.6 Business acquisition transaction costs 3.5 1.7 45.0 0.7 Research and development expenditure Incurred 54.5 49.7 Capitalised 14.7 12.9 Depreciation and amortisation Property, plant and equipment 16.4 16.1 Software 2.2 Capitalised development costs 6.0 4.8 Acquired intangible assets 13.2 13.3 Operating lease rentals Hire of plant and machinery 0.2 0.2 Other 8.9 8.1 Auditors remuneration Audit fees Audit of financial statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of subsidiaries 0.7 0.7 Total audit fees 1.1 1.1 Tax fees Compliance services 0.2 0.2 Bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement US-China 0.7 0.6 Advisory services 0.1 0.3 Total non-audit services 1.0 1.1 Total fees paid to the auditor were 2.1m 2014, 2.2m.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109 7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Explanatory note: Exceptional items are items of income or expense incurred outside the normal course of business, and are considered to be material and one-off in nature.
This note provides a detailed breakdown of the Exceptional items line included on the Group income statement.
2015 2014 m m Continuing operations: Performance Materials Asset write downs: Property, plant and equipment 1.9 Capitalised development costs 1.5 1.2 Inventory 0.8 Other restructuring costs 19.8 0.3 24.0 1.5 Wireless Systems Asset write downs: Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Capitalised development costs 1.7 Inventory 0.8 Patents litigation 0.6 3.6 Other restructuring costs 8.9 12.5 3.6 Unallocated costs credits Asset write downs: Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Software 0.5 Business acquisition transaction costs 3.5 1.7 Change in valuation of put and call options in respect of Model Solution 1.8 0.8 Acquisition contingent consideration reduction note 17 6.9 Other restructuring costs 2.2 0.2 8.5 5.8 Net charge credit 45.0 0.7 Note a In October 2015 the company announced a major re-design of its operating model which in particular includes the simplification of manufacturing capabilities in Europe and North America.
In 2015 there are asset write downs of 8.2m and site rationalisation, closure and relocation costs of 30.8m associated with this project which are included within other restructuring costs above.
b A patent lawsuit filed against Laird in 2014 has been settled during 2015 with an additional 0.6m of legal costs charged in 2015. c The total cash outlay for exceptional costs in 2015 was 7.6m 2014, 9.1m.
d The tax effect on exceptional items in 2015 is a 8.3m tax charge 2014, 2.6m.
e The changes in valuation of put and call options in respect of Model Solution include a 1.4m loss 2014, 0.7m gain on a put option and a 0.4m loss 2014,0.1m gain on a call option see note 27.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 110 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 8 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Explanatory note: This note provides a breakdown of the cost of our executive and non-executive directors.
Further detail is provided in the Directors remuneration report on page 54, including information regarding gains on the exercise of share options by directors during 2015.
2015 2014 m m Remuneration Fees 0.3 0.2 Salaries and benefits 1.4 1.0 Pension contributions 0.2 0.3 Performance incentive awards Bonuses 0.4 0.4 Share based payments 0.7 0.6 3.0 2.5 9 EMPLOYEES Explanatory note: This note provides detailed information on the cost of our employees and the number in the Performance Materials and Wireless Systems divisions.
The note also includes details of the compensation of key management personnel excluding directors, for details of directors see note 8.
Key management personnel comprise members of the management team as defined by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2015 2014 Number Number Average number of Group employees from continuing operations Performance Materials 6,406 6,813 Wireless Systems 2,187 2,126 8,593 8,939 The total number of Group employees at 31 December 2015 was 8,478 2014, 8,922.
2015 2014 m m Employee costs Wages and salaries 114.7 106.2 Social security costs 13.8 13.5 Other pension costs 3.2 2.6 Share based payments 2.7 1.8 134.4 124.1 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111 9 EMPLOYEES CONTINUED Compensation of key management personnel excluding directors, for details of directors see note 8.
2015 2014 m m Short term employee benefits 1.8 2.8 Post employment benefits 0.1 Share based payments 0.5 0.6 2.3 3.5 10 FINANCE REVENUES AND COSTS Explanatory note: Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing our debt structure.
This is offset by interest income that is generated through efficient use of short term cash surpluses.
2015 2014 m m Finance revenue Interest income 0.6 0.5 Finance costs Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 5.6 2.3 Interest payable on other loans 1.6 4.3 Interest payable on finance leases 0.5 Other finance charges 1.2 1.4 8.4 8.5 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 0.5 2.5 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 112 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 11 TAXATION Explanatory note: The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the amount payable on this years taxable profits which are adjusted for items upon which we are not required to pay tax, or in some cases for items which we are required to pay additional tax in respect of tax-disallowed expenditure.
Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules.
2015 2014 m m a Analysis of the tax charge credit for the year Current tax Current income tax charge 22.1 11.2 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 1.0 1.8 Total current tax charge 21.1 9.4 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.8 11.1 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.1 0.4 Total tax charge credit in the income statement 23.0 2.1 The tax charge credit in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Tax charge credit on continuing operations 23.0 2.1 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge credit for the year Profit before tax from continuing operations 15.4 48.1 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014, 21.5% 3.1 10.3 Effects of: Items not deductible for tax purposes 7.3 10.4 Benefit of R&D, Hi-Tech status and local investments 4.8 6.2 Adjustment to current and deferred tax in respect of prior periods 0.4 2.2 Conclusion of overseas tax audit discussions 1.3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and attributes 0.4 2.4 Current year tax losses and attributes not recognised 10.5 6.2 Exceptional US loss recognition movement 1.2 20.1 Overseas tax rate differences 0.3 0.7 Changes in tax rate 1.6 1.2 Tax effect of operating model re-design 8.3 Total tax charge credit reported in the income statement 23.0 2.1 includes the non-recognition of 6.6m of attributes relating to the operating model re-design costs.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE Explanatory note: Earnings per share EPS represents the amount of our earnings post-tax profits that are attributable to each ordinary share we have in issue.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year divided by the daily average of the number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the same profit but with the number of shares increased to reflect the daily average effect of relevant share options granted but not yet exercised where performance conditions have been met and shares contingently issuable.
2015 2014 m m Profit Loss profit for the year 7.6 50.2 Number of Number of shares shares m m Weighted average shares Basic weighted average shares 267.2 266.9 Options 2.2 2.6 Diluted weighted average shares 269.4 269.5 Pence Pence Earnings per share Basic on loss profit for the year 3.1 18.8 Diluted on loss profit for the year 3.1 18.6 attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company.
In 2015, instruments which could potentially dilute EPS in the future were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS because they are anti-dilutive for the current year.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 114 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 13 UNDERLYING RESULTS Explanatory note: Underlying profit and earnings per share are shown as the Board considers them to be relevant guides to the performance of the Group.
Underlying tax is stated before exceptional items, deferred tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised development costs, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses and the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments.
The deferred tax impact of short-term losses and current tax on the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill are included in the calculation of underlying tax.
The underlying tax charge for the year is equivalent to 18.2% 2014, 18.4% of underlying profit before tax.
2015 2014 m m Profit Profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 80.7 71.2 Finance revenue 0.6 0.5 Finance costs 8.4 8.5 Other net finance revenue pension 0.2 Underlying profit before tax 73.1 63.2 Tax The underlying tax charge is calculated as follows: Underlying tax 13.3 11.6 Underlying tax rate 18.2% 18.4% Tax charge on exceptional items 8.3 2.6 Deferred tax on goodwill, acquired intangible assets and US capitalised development costs 0.2 3.8 Exceptional US tax loss movement recognition 1.2 20.1 Total tax charge credit 23.0 2.1 Analysis of tax charge: Tax on profit 23.0 2.1 Pence Pence Earnings per share Underlying earnings per share basic 21.8 19.1 Underlying earnings per share diluted 21.6 18.9 attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 115 14 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED Explanatory note: Dividends are the amounts we return to our shareholders and are paid as an amount per ordinary share held.
On 1 March 2016 the Board declared, subject to approval from shareholders, a final dividend of 8.6p per share 2014, 8.23p.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 July 2016 to shareholders registered on 3 June 2016.
Dividends paid are charged to retained earnings on the earlier of the date of payment or the date on which they become a legal liability of the Company.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 116 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Explanatory note: This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by us that we use in our business.
The cost of an asset is what we paid to purchase or construct the asset.
Depreciation is calculated by that cost, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset.
An assets net book value is its cost less any depreciation including impairment, if required charged to date.
Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are ready for use in the intended location.
Land and Plant and buildings machinery Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 21.3 172.6 193.9 Additions 2.9 20.6 23.5 Acquisition of businesses in the year 7.6 5.9 13.5 Disposals 0.3 3.7 4.0 Reclassification of assets held for sale 0.7 0.7 Foreign currency adjustment 0.9 7.2 8.1 At 31 December 2014 31.7 202.6 234.3 Additions 4.1 11.6 15.7 Acquisition of businesses in the year 1.4 1.3 2.7 Disposals 0.4 6.6 7.0 Reclassification of software 17.6 17.6 Foreign currency adjustment 0.8 2.2 3.0 At 31 December 2015 37.6 193.5 231.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2014 12.8 112.1 124.9 Charge for year 1.4 14.7 16.1 Disposals 0.3 3.7 4.0 Reclassification of assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 Foreign currency adjustment 0.8 4.8 5.6 At 31 December 2014 14.5 127.9 142.4 Charge for year 3.6 12.8 16.4 Disposals 0.4 6.6 7.0 Exceptional write down note 7 0.7 2.2 2.9 Reclassification of software - 10.2 10.2 Foreign currency adjustment 0.8 1.9 2.7 At 31 December 2015 19.2 128.0 147.2 Net book value at 31 December 2015 18.4 65.5 83.9 Net book value at 31 December 2014 17.2 74.7 91.9 Net book value at 1 January 2014 8.5 60.5 69.0 In 2014 land and buildings with a net book value of 0.5m were reclassified as assets held for sale as at 31 December 2014.
The land and buildings held for sale by Wireless Systems in the US was disposed in 2015 and no gain or loss on disposal was recognised.
Software has been reclassified from plant and machinery to intangible assets note 16 during 2015.
Finance leases the net book value of buildings held under finance leases as at 31 December 2015 was 7.0m 2014,7.6m and of plant and machinery was 0.1m 2014, 0.6m.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 117 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Explanatory note: This note shows the cost, amortisation and net book value of the non-physical assets controlled by us that we recognise in our business.
The cost of an asset is the expense incurred to develop the asset internally applies to capitalised development costs or the cost incurred when the asset is purchased as part of a business combination applies to all other intangible asset types.
Amortisation is calculated differently, depending on the asset type.
Previously it was included in Plant and machinery under Property, plant and equipment note 15.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 118 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED CAPITALISED DEVELOPMENT COSTS Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure in 2015 typically have a finite expected useful life of around four years.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits.
The total amount of research and development activity incurred during 2015 is 54.5m 2014, 49.7m of which 14.7m 2014, 12.9m was capitalised.
GOODWILL Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
No impairment to goodwill was identified.
Goodwill was tested for impairment for the following cash generating units CGUs : Performance Materials division Wireless Systems division Performance Materials had a goodwill balance of 264.3m at the year end 2014, 256.5m.
Wireless Systems had a goodwill balance of 232.2m at the year end 2014, 197.8m.
All of the recoverable amounts are based on value in use.
The key assumptions were: A pre-tax discount rate of 9.6% 2014, 10.6%.
Revenue growth rates for each CGU were based on relevant external market estimates and management knowledge.
The discount rate has been applied to cash flow forecasts for 2015 to perpetuity.
The forecast cash flows for 20162018 are based on what has been approved internally by the Board for the 2016 budget and for the medium term growth plans.
Revenue estimates which underpin the forecasts for 20192020, have been based on external market estimates for PCs, Tablets, Smartphones, Transportation and Telecoms but after reflecting managements views of average selling prices, product penetration trends and their impact on the size of the addressable market.
Cash flows for 2020 onwards for both divisions have been increased by 3% per annum 2014, 3% per annum.
Downside sensitivities have been applied to the cash flow estimates to assess the impact upon the headroom over the carrying value of the assets and provide further comfort that no impairment is required.
Performance Materials has the greatest amount of headroom and Wireless Systems the least.
There are no reasonably possible changes in assumptions that would give rise to an impairment.
OTHER ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brand names 5 years Trade secrets 8 to 15 years Trade marks and names 5 to 15 years Patents the remaining duration of the 16 year legal right Licence the remaining duration of the 19 year legal right Customer relationships 10 to 20 years Software 5 to 7 years The expected life assigned to acquired customer relationships is an estimate and is not secured by any legal obligation on the customer to continue business with the Group for any finite period.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 119 17 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Explanatory note: This note provides both quantitative and descriptive information on acquisitions made by the Group in 2015 and 2014, including details of the acquisitions themselves, the net assets acquired and the consideration paid or payable.
ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES IN 2015 On 24 November 2015, the Group acquired 100% of LS Research LSR, a US based leader in wireless product design and development for a total consideration of 36.5m $55.0m.
This acquisition adds new capabilities in embedded wireless solutions and services to Laird, provides us with new routes to market for our own products and most importantly, extends our reach, presence and capabilities in Enterprise Internet of Things.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition and all intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The fair values are provisional.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Book and fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of LSR stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were as follows: Provisional fair values to Book values the Group m m Property, plant and equipment 2.9 2.9 Intangible assets 11.1 Inventories 0.5 0.5 Trade and other receivables 3.8 3.8 Trade and other payables 1.8 1.8 Deferred tax liabilities 4.3 Net assets acquired 5.4 12.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 24.3 Consideration 36.5 Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 34.7 Net cash acquired 0.5 Deferred consideration 0.2 Borrowings acquired 2.1 36.5 In the period following acquisition, revenue for LSR was 1.4m, there was a profit after tax of nil and underlying profit before tax was 0.1m.
If the acquisition had been held for the full year, Group revenues would have been 645.6m and the profit before tax would have been 1.4m higher at 16.8m.
Included in the 24.3m of goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 120 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 17 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES IN 2014 On 17 April 2014, the Group acquired 51% of Model Solution Co. Ltd Model Solution, an unlisted South Korean company specialising in prototype design and manufacturing.
The acquisition is in line with the strategy of diversifying both the Group geographic reach and customer base.
An initial cash consideration of 20.5m was paid and a share of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents were acquired of 7.9m.
The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interest in Model Solution as the proportionate fair value of net assets acquired.
Book and fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Model Solution stated at rates of exchange at the date of acquisition, were as follows: Fair values Book values to the Group m m Property, plant and equipment 13.4 13.4 Intangible assets 16.1 Deferred tax assets 0.1 0.1 Inventories 1.9 1.9 Trade and other receivables 0.9 0.9 Other current financial assets 1.7 1.7 Other non-current assets 0.9 0.9 Trade and other payables 3.0 3.0 Income tax payable 0.3 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities 3.5 Retirement benefit obligations 1.3 1.3 Other non-current liabilities 0.4 Provisions 0.3 0.3 14.0 25.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.5 Borrowings 9.4 9.4 Net assets acquired 6.1 17.2 Non-controlling interests 49% 8.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition 10.7 Net consideration 19.5 Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 20.5 Less: Call option at initial fair value 1.0 19.5 In the period following acquisition, revenue for Model Solution was 17.6m, there was a profit after tax of 0.5m and underlying profit before tax was 1.8m.
If the acquisition had been held for the full year, Group revenues would have been 571.3m and the profit before tax would have been 0.5m lower at 47.6m.
Included in the 10.7m of goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 121 17 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED In accordance with the Shareholders agreement entered into between the Group and Skylake Consortium Skylake to acquire Model Solution the Group and Skylake are respectively granted call and put options which entitle the Group to purchase from Skylake and Skylake to sell to the Group Skylakes 49% interest in Model Solution.
The call options can be exercised by the Group on 17 April 2017, 2018 or 2019, and the put option can be exercised by Skylake on 17 April 2019 and if none of these options are exercised then the Group is committed to acquire the 49% interest in Model Solution on 17 April 2020.
The exercise price for the call and put options will be determined in accordance with the Shareholders agreement and will be between KRW 34.3bn 20.1m and KRW 92.7bn 54.2m.
FINANCIAL LIABILITY PUT OPTION The financial liability that may become payable under the put option was initially recognised at a fair value of 33.3m within non-current liabilities with a corresponding charge directly to other reserves, as a put option written on non-controlling interest.
The put option liability shall be re-measured at its fair value resulting from the change in the expected performance of Model Solution at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement as an exceptional acquisition consideration related item.
At 31 December 2015 the fair value was re-measured as 34.0m 2014, 32.6m with a 1.4m charge 2014, 0.7m credit recognised in the income statement.
In the event that the put option lapses unexercised, the liability will be derecognised with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
FINANCIAL ASSET CALL OPTION There was a financial asset initially recognised of 1.0m within non-current assets in respect of the call option that the Group has over the non-controlling interests with a corresponding credit taken to goodwill.
The call option asset will be re-measured at its fair value resulting from the change in the expected performance of Model Solution at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement as an exceptional acquisition consideration related item.
At 31 December 2015 the fair value was re-measured as 0.7m 2014, 1.1m with a 0.4m charge 2014, 0.1m credit recognised in the income statement.
18 INVENTORIES Explanatory note: Inventories held consist of physical stocks used in the manufacture of goods, partially completed goods in the process of being manufactured, and finished goods ready to be sold to customers.
2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 20.8 20.6 Work in progress 2.3 1.0 Finished goods 42.9 38.6 66.0 60.2 Expenses relating to inventories written down during the period totalled 1.6m 2014, nil.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 122 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Explanatory note: Trade and other receivables represent amounts owed to us by our customers for goods or services we have provided but not yet been paid for.
The note includes accrued income, which is income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, and prepayments which are amounts paid by the Group for which we are yet to receive the relevant goods or service in return.
2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 123.9 117.6 Other receivables 13.7 19.9 Prepayments and accrued income 10.9 8.7 148.5 146.2 Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2015 2014 m m Sterling 0.3 0.4 Euros 7.2 7.8 US Dollars 93.8 85.7 Renminbi 20.1 18.8 Others 2.5 4.9 123.9 117.6 Out of the carrying amount of trade receivables of 123.9m 2014, 117.6m, 43.6m 2014, 44.7m relates to the top ten major customers.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables at nominal value of 1.2m 2014, 0.9m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 0.9 1.3 Charge for the year 0.4 0.3 Amounts written off 0.1 0.6 Released during the year 0.1 Acquired 0.1 Foreign currency adjustment 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 1.2 0.9 The provision has been based on regular reviews of the collectability of individual customers trade receivable balances.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 123 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED As at 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Neither past due nor Less than More than Total impaired 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days m m m m m m 31 December 2015 123.9 106.3 12.4 3.3 1.3 0.6 31 December 2014 117.6 107.6 7.3 2.4 0.3 The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information relating to counterparty default rates is used.
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Explanatory note: Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other bank accounts that are accessible on demand.
2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 64.0 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets in the Group statement of financial position comprises cash at bank.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 124 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 21 BORROWINGS Explanatory note: Borrowings comprise private placement debt, bank loans and finance leases, with fixed maturity profiles repayable between 2016 and 2021.
2015 2014 m m Current: Interest Maturity US Private Placement loans USD 5.76% 2016 29.2 Other short term borrowings 0.1 0.5 Finance leases 0.3 29.3 0.8 Non-current: US Private Placement loans USD 5.76% 2016 27.6 US Private Placement loans USD 3.69% 2020 8.8 8.4 US Private Placement loans USD 4.02% 2021 62.2 58.9 US Private Placement loans EURO 2.59% 2021 11.1 11.7 Bilateral revolving bank loans 150.4 109.0 Finance leases 7.0 7.1 239.5 222.7 Total borrowings 268.8 223.5 Borrowings are repayable as follows: Within one year Bank 0.1 0.5 US Private Placement loans 29.2 Finance lease 0.3 Between one and two years US Private Placement loans 27.6 Between two and five years Finance leases 7.0 7.1 US Private Placement loan 8.8 Bank 150.4 109.0 In five years or more US Private Placement loans 73.3 79.0 Total borrowings 268.8 223.5 The impact of foreign currency movements on Group borrowings is disclosed in the analysis of movements in net borrowings contained within note 31.
Notes a There are no borrowings secured on the assets of subsidiary undertakings 2014, nil.
b The Group had committed bilateral revolving bank loan facilities of 255.0m 2014, 250.0m which were underwritten in excess of four years.
Drawings by Group companies under these facilities were 150.4m 2014, 109.0m.
Although these drawings are repayable within one year they are classified as long term as they can be refinanced under the terms of the facilities.
c Ancillary costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are amortised over the term of the facility, using the effective interest rate method.
d The Group has finance leases due within one year of nil 2014, 0.3m for plant and machinery and due beyond one year of 7.0m 2014, 7.1m for buildings.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 125 22 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS Explanatory note: Operating lease payments are future payments that we are committed to making for the use of land and building facilities.
2015 2014 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 8.9 0.1 7.7 0.1 Later than one year and less than five years 24.3 0.2 15.2 After five years 13.6 7.5 46.8 0.3 30.4 0.1 23 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Explanatory note: Trade and other payables represent amounts we owe to our suppliers for goods and services provided, tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business.
We make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of our activities in the current year, and we recognise deferred income for income that has been received in the period, but not yet earned.
2015 2014 m m Trade payables 80.5 82.2 Social security costs 2.3 1.6 Other payables 19.7 14.5 Accruals and deferred income 16.1 13.2 118.6 111.5 24 DEFERRED TAXES Explanatory note: Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules.
2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets Losses 0.8 0.7 Other temporary differences 2.8 3.4 3.6 4.1 Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation 102.7 92.5 Losses 21.2 21.3 81.5 71.2 Other temporary differences 2.8 1.6 78.7 69.6 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 126 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 24 DEFERRED TAXES CONTINUED Movements on deferred tax liabilities during the year were: Accelerated tax depreciation andlosses Other Total m m m At 1 January 2014 73.4 3.1 76.5 Charged to the income statement 9.3 4.6 13.9 Acquisitions 3.6 3.6 Foreign currency adjustment 3.5 0.1 3.4 At 31 December 2014 71.2 1.6 69.6 Charged to the income statement 3.0 1.6 1.4 Acquisitions 4.2 4.2 Foreign currency adjustment 3.1 0.4 3.5 At 31 December 2015 81.5 2.8 78.7 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that there will be taxable profits against which these assets will be offset.
UNRECOGNISED TAX LOSSES Deferred tax assets have not been established on trading losses of 37.7m 2014, 24.4m where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date.
Of these losses, 1.8m 2014, 3.5m have expiry dates between 2015 and 2025 and 35.9m 2014, 20.9m are available indefinitely.
Deferred tax assets have not been established on capital losses of 3.7m 2014, 4.5m where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on other deductible temporary differences of 16.8m 2014, 33.0m where their use is restricted indefinitely.
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES ASSOCIATED WITH GROUP INVESTMENTS Deferred tax of 1.7m 2014, 2.0m has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where it is likely there will be income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences of 6.9m 2014, 6.9m relating to the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 31 December 2015 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE TAX CHARGES The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 19% effective 1 April 2017, and will then reduce further to 18% effective 1 April 2020.
Disclosure of deferred tax has been adjusted to reflect the enactment of the revised rates but with no significant impact on these financial statements.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 127 25 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Explanatory note: This note provides further detail on other liabilities due in more than one years time.
2015 2014 m m Other creditors 0.6 1.0 Accruals and deferred income 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.6 26 PROVISIONS Explanatory note: The timing and amount of cash outflows for provisions are by their nature uncertain and dependent upon the outcome of related events.
The best estimates are shown in the table below.
Restructuring provisions are in respect of the major redesign of the Groups operating model as explained in note 7.
Warranty claims are in respect of potential liabilities arising from the disposal of businesses.
Litigation and other provisions consist primarily of amounts provided in respect of events arising from litigation, trade and various other provisions that do not fit into distinct categories.
Warranty Litigation Restructuring claims and other Total m m m m At 1 January 2015 Current 0.1 1.7 1.8 Non-current 1.0 6.0 7.0 1.1 7.7 8.8 Provided 28.6 28.6 Utilised released 0.1 3.1 3.2 Reclassified from non-current liabilities 0.2 0.2 Foreign currency adjustment 1.1 0.2 1.3 At 31 December 2015 29.7 1.0 5.0 35.7 Analysed as: Current 24.1 0.1 1.9 26.1 Non-current 5.6 0.9 3.1 9.6 29.7 1.0 5.0 35.7 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 128 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Explanatory note: We hold a variety of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk and capital management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Chief Financial Officers report on page 24 and in the notes to the financial statements note 2.
The Groups derivative financial instruments are forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures and both put and call options relating to the non-controlling interest NCI in Model Solution acquired April 2014.
The put option is a liability that may become payable regarding the NCI in Model Solution.
The call option is a financial asset that the Group has over the NCI in Model Solution.
Non-derivative financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, and non-current and current trade and other receivables, borrowings and trade and other payables.
FINANCIAL ASSETS The financial assets of the Group comprised: 2015 2014 m m Current Cash and cash equivalents note 20 68.8 64.0 Trade and other receivables 133.4 130.6 202.2 194.6 Non-current Other non-current receivables 1.4 1.0 Derivative financial instruments call option 0.7 1.1 2.1 2.1 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The financial liabilities of the Group comprised: 2015 2014 m m Current Borrowings note 21 29.3 0.8 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.6 Trade and other payables note 23 114.4 110.1 143.9 111.5 Non-current Borrowings note 21 239.5 222.7 Other non-current liabilities note 25 1.2 1.6 Derivative financial instruments put option 34.0 32.6 274.7 256.9 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 129 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED INTEREST RATE RISK PROFILE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: More Within 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 than 5 Year ended 31 December 2015 1 year Years Years Years Years Years Total Fixed rate $43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 29.2 29.2 $13m US Private Placement loans at 3.69% due 2020 8.8 8.8 $92m US Private Placement loans at 4.02% due 2021 62.2 62.2 15m US Private Placement loans at 2.59% due 2021 11.1 11.1 Finance leases at 8.5% due 2018 7.0 7.0 Sub Total 29.2 7.0 8.8 73.3 118.3 Floating rate Cash and cash equivalents 68.8 68.8 Bank loans 0.1 150.4 150.5 Sub Total 68.7 150.4 81.7 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on the financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
More Within 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 than 5 Year ended 31 December 2014 1 year Years Years Years Years Years Total Fixed rate $43m US Private Placement loans at 5.76% due 2016 27.6 27.6 $13m US Private Placement loans at 3.69% due 2020 8.4 8.4 $92m US Private Placement loans at 4.02% due 2021 58.9 58.9 15m US Private Placement loans at 2.59% due 2021 11.7 11.7 Finance leases at 8.5% due 2018 7.1 7.1 Finance leases due 2015 0.3 0.3 Sub Total 0.3 27.6 7.1 79.0 114.0 Floating rate Cash and cash equivalents 64.0 64.0 Bank loans 0.5 109.0 109.5 Sub Total 63.5 109.0 45.5 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to manage foreign exchange exposures.
The forward contracts have a principal value of 30.6m 2014, 120.8m and are mainly denominated in US Dollar and Chinese Renminbi.
These contracts have not been designated as cash flow hedges and the decrease in fair value during 2015 of 0.5m 2014, 2.5m decrease has been taken to the income statement.
These are Level 2 derivative financial instruments and there has been no movement between levels during the year.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 130 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION The consideration to acquire Nextreme Thermal Solutions Inc. included estimated contingent consideration of 12.0m based on future revenue targets being met.
m Initial fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition 12.0 Fair value adjustment 4.7 Exchange adjustment 0.4 Non-current liability for contingent consideration as at 1 January 2014 6.9 Fair value adjustment note 7 6.9 Exchange adjustment Non-current liability for contingent consideration as at 31 December 2014 Non-current liability for contingent consideration as at 31 December 2015 The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are revenue projections for Nextreme from 2014 to 2017 with a potential earnout payment based on a multiple of 0.4 times revenue and a discount rate applied as at 31 December being a 3 year UK Government bond yield.
Revenues are estimated to be below the threshold requirement 0.3m in each of the years to December 2017 and accordingly there is expected to be no contingent consideration payable.
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a Level 3 derivative financial instrument.
FINANCIAL LIABILITY PUT OPTION The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the non-controlling interest in Model Solution is recognised at a fair value of 34.0m 2014, 32.6m within non-current liabilities.
The exercise price for the put option will be calculated by dividing the EBITDA of Model Solution for the year to 31 March 2019 by EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2014 and applying this factor against a base price of KRW 34.3bn 19.8m.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are an EBITDA projection for Model Solution for the year to 31 March 2019 and a discount rate of 2.6% applied at 31 December 2015 2014, 2.86%.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA for the year to 31 March 2019 would result in an increase in the financial liability of 3.4m, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability of 3.4m.
An increase in the discount rate by 1% would result in a decrease in the financial liability of 1.1m, while a decrease in the discount rate by 1% would result in an increase in the financial liability of 1.1m.
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, the put option is classified as a Level 3 derivative financial instrument.
FINANCIAL ASSET CALL OPTION There is a financial asset recognised of 0.7m 2014, 1.1m within non-current assets in respect of the call option that the Group has over the non-controlling interest in Model Solution.
The call option can be exercised by the Group on 17 April 2017, 2018 or 2019.
The exercise price for the call option will be calculated by dividing the EBITDA of Model Solution for the year to 31 March prior to the date of exercise of the call option by EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2014 and applying this factor against a base price of KRW 34.3bn 19.8m.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections for Model Solution for the years to the end of the financial month prior to the date of exercise of the call option and a discount rate being a Korean risk-free rate over the period to exercise, determined at 31 December 2015.
The financial asset is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example, a 10% increase in the base EBITDA scenario would result in a decrease in the financial asset of 0.2m, while a 10% decrease would result in an increase in the financial assets of 0.3m and a decrease in the discount rate by 1% would result in no material change to the financial asset, as would a 1% increase.
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, the call option is classified as a Level 3 derivative financial instrument.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 131 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY PROFILE The Groups policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between variable and fixed interest rate borrowings.
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments are used to manage interest costs.
At 31 December 2015 approximately 44% 2014, 49% of debt is at fixed rate.
This position is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it is still appropriate.
INTEREST RATE RISK The following table shows the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
The interest rates considered are Sterling, Euro and US Dollar, being the currencies in which the Group have historically issued debt and held investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes those recognised at fair value as well as all non-derivative floating rate financial instruments.
Effect on profit before tax 2015 m 50 basis points increase in US Dollar interest rates 0.7 50 basis points increase in Sterling interest rates 0.0 50 basis points increase in Euro interest rates 0.1 A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
2014 50 basis points increase in US Dollar interest rates 0.5 50 basis points increase in Sterling interest rates 0.0 50 basis points increase in Euro interest rates 0.1 A 50 basis point decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
CREDIT RISK The Groups customer base is largely focused in the global electronics market where it has leading positions in its principal products with customers who themselves have significant market shares.
Inevitably, this results in levels of business and trade receivables that are material in the overall Group context.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying amount of the financial assets.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group is exposed to transactional currency exposures on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollar, Euro and Renminbi.
The Group policy is to match out the sales and purchases in these currencies wherever possible and then hedge out the residual exposures.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 132 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The following table shows the sensitivity to a possible change in US Dollar, Euro and Renminbi exchange rates against Sterling with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and forward currency contracts and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges.
Effect on profit Effect on before tax equity m m 2015 10% appreciation of the US Dollar 9.7 23.6 10% appreciation of the Euro 0.9 2.6 10% appreciation of the Renminbi 1.5 2014 10% appreciation of the US Dollar 9.3 18.9 10% appreciation of the Euro 0.3 2.7 10% appreciation of the Renminbi 1.1 A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
NET INVESTMENT HEDGING Included in borrowings are US $349.5m 237.1m and 35.0m 25.8m of debt which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in the United States and Europe subsidiaries.
This is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
LIQUIDITY RISK The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 and 2014 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
More On Within 1 1 to 5 than 5 demand Year Years Years Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.1 34.6 180.9 76.3 291.9 Derivative financial instruments Put option 34.0 34.0 Trade and other payables 114.4 114.4 Other non-current liabilities 1.2 1.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 0.1 149.2 216.1 76.3 441.7 More On Within 1 1 to 5 than 5 demand Year Years Years Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 5.2 160.7 84.9 250.8 Derivative financial instruments Put option 32.6 32.6 Trade and other payables 110.1 110.1 Other non-current liabilities 1.6 1.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.6 0.6 115.9 194.9 84.9 395.7 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 133 27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Group ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents in place to meet its financial commitments as they fall due.
UNDRAWN COMMITTED BORROWING FACILITIES The Groups financial policy is to maintain committed borrowing facilities, which provide substantial headroom over and above its day-to-day borrowing requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Expiring between two and three years Expiring between four and five years 103.5 139.6 LOAN COVENANTS The principal covenants in the Groups committed loan facilities and loan note agreements that place restrictions on net borrowings are set out below: Interest cover The interest cover covenant is for earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax and amortisation EBITA to be not less than 3.0 times interest payable.
Net borrowings: EBITDA ratio Net borrowings must not exceed 3.5 times earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group was in compliance with the covenants detailed above at 31 December 2015.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The US Private Placement loans with a book value of 111.5m 2014, 106.8m have an estimated fair value of 112.0m 2014, 110.2m which has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing coupon rates as at 31 December 2015.
There are no material differences between fair value and book value on any of the other financial instruments.
28 ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Explanatory note: Our ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares issued, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 134 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 28 ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED At 31 December 2015, options to subscribe for 580,608 ordinary shares at prices between 211p and 397p were outstanding under the Companys executive share option schemes 2014, 1,073,759 ordinary shares at prices between 211p and 397p.
Options outstanding under the schemes are held by 4 individuals and are exercisable at various times up to 4 April 2024.
No further options have been granted since the year end.
29 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Explanatory note: The Group incurs a cost in its income statement in respect of its share option schemes.
Details of the plans are set out below, along with a detailed description of each scheme and the number of options outstanding.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 77, sets out the general terms and conditions for long term incentives and the vesting requirements for the 2015 awards.
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR AWARDS MADE IN 2013 UNDER THE LAIRD PLC 2013 LONG TERM INCENTIVEPLAN Nil-Cost Awards will vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, on a ranked basis relative to the FTSE 250 excluding companies in the financial services sector and investment trusts measured over athree year period as follows: Total Shareholder Return Amount of nil-cost award vesting Performance Level % Upper Quartile Full vesting Median to Upper Quartile Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting Below Median Nil In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Market Value Options will vest based on the average annual growth in the Companys Earnings Per Share over a three-year period in line with the following performance schedule: Average Annual Growth in Continuing Earnings per share Level of market value option vesting 13% p. a.
Full vesting Between 8% p. a. and 13% p. a.
Pro-rata between 25% and full vesting 8% p. a.
Threshold 25% vesting Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 135 29 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR AWARDS MADE IN 2014 UNDER THE LAIRD PLC 2013 LONG TERM INCENTIVEPLAN Nil-Cost Awards will vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, on a ranked basis relative to the FTSE 250 excluding companies in the financial services sector and investment trusts measured over athree year period as follows: Total Shareholder Return Amount of nil-cost award vesting Performance Level % Upper Quartile Full vesting Median to Upper Quartile Pro-rata on a straight-line basis between 25% and full vesting Below Median Nil In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Market Value Options will vest based on the average annual growth in the Companys Earnings Per Share over a three year period in line with the following performance schedule: Average Annual Growth in Continuing Earnings per share Level of market value option vesting 12.5% p. a.
Full vesting Between 7.5% p. a. and 12.5% p. a.
Pro-rata on a straight-line basis between 25% and full vesting 7.5% p. a.
Threshold 25% vesting Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR AWARDS MADE IN 2015 UNDER THE LAIRD PLC 2015 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Shares awarded under The Laird PLC 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan vest three years after they have been awarded.
There are vesting conditions attached to the 2015 LTIP awards which specify EPS and TSR targets for the year to December 2018.
Further detail is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
MEDIUM-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN MTIP Shares awarded under the MTIP vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group.
There are vesting conditions attached to the MTIP awards which specify EPS targets for the year to December 2017.
The awards will vest based on the average annual growth in the Companys Earnings Per Share over that period as follows: Average Annual Growth in Continuing Earnings per share Percentage of award vesting 26% p. a.
Full vesting Between 10% p. a. and 20% p. a.
Pro-rata on a straight-line basis between 20% and full vesting 10% p. a.
Threshold 20% vesting Less than 10% p. a. Nil RESTRICTED SHARE PLAN RSP Shares awarded under the RSP vest three years after they have been awarded to the employee at nil cost, provided the employee is still employed by the Group.
There are no other vesting conditions.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 136 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 29 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED SPECIAL SHARE AWARDS There were special share awards issued to Tony Quinlan in the year.
All share based payments are equity settled.
An expense of 2.7m was recognised in the year 2014, 1.8m before employers national insurance and was based on the fair value of the LTIP shares awarded, the RSP shares awarded and the share options granted.
The following table shows the number of LTIP awards in issue at the beginning of the year, end of the year and those granted during the year.
2015 2014 Number Number Outstanding as at 1 January 974,631 955,275 Granted during the year 381,077 262,375 Lapsed during the year 190,875 36,382 Vested and exercised during the year 379,160 206,637 Outstanding as at 31 December 785,673 974,631 The following table shows the number of MTIP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2015 2014 Number Number Outstanding as at 1 January 557,009 557,009 Granted during the year 2,123,128 Lapsed during the year 21,169 Vested and exercised during the year 557,009 Outstanding as at 31 December 2,101,959 557,009 The following table shows the number of RSP awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2015 2014 Number Number Outstanding as at 1 January 1,821,822 1,968,870 Granted during the year 847,727 582,045 Lapsed during the year 255,515 98,393 Vested and exercised during the year 520,077 630,700 Outstanding as at 31 December 1,893,957 1,821,822 The following table shows the number of special awards in issue at the beginning and at the end of the year.
2015 2014 Number Number Outstanding as at 1 January Granted during the year 147,804 Lapsed during the year Vested and exercised during the year Outstanding as at 31 December 147,804 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 137 29 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of, and movements in share options issued under the 2003 Executive Share Option Plan.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in 2015 was 357p 2014, 311p.
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.4 years 2014, 6.8 years.
The fair value of LTIP shares awarded is estimated as at the date of award, using a Monte Carlo simulation technique, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the LTIP shares were awarded including the market based performance conditions set out in the Directors remuneration report.
The fair value of share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial lattice method of calculation, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which share options were granted.
The non-market performance conditions set out in the Directors remuneration report are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
The weighted average fair value in pence of LTIP, MTIP, RSP, special and share options granted during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 LTIP 277 159 MTIP 211 RSP 302 250 Special 287 Share options 82 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 138 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2015 29 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The following table lists the inputs to the valuation models for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015.
LTIP, MTIP LTIP, MTIP RSP & RSP & SPECIAL SPECIAL ESOP ESOP 2015 2014 2015 2014 Dividend Yield % 4.0 4.0 4.0 Expected Share Price volatility % 30 35 35 Expected comparator volatility % 6-65 1199 N A Risk-free interest rate % N A N A 2.3 Expected life of LTIP option years 3.0 3.0 7.0 Weighted average share price p 381.33 288.8 303.0 The expected life of the share based payments is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility: average of monthly activity over the last three years.
Expected volatility reflects the assumptions that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily prove to be the actual outcome.
Dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in calculating the fair value.
For the share option schemes, no allowance is considered necessary for leavers pre-vesting.
30 RESERVES Explanatory note: Reserves form part of shareholders equity.
They are retained in the business and not distributed to shareholders.
TRANSLATION RESERVE The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
TREASURY SHARES The investment in Laird shares are held by the Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust and the Laird PLC Employee Benefit Trust, as described below, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes.
The Laird 1990 Employee Benefit Trust The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC for the benefit of current and former employees.
These shares may be used to satisfy options and awards.
The Trust, which is financed by a loan of 5.5m from the Company, held 331,311 ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 2014, 754,916.
Whilst shares are held within the Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustee, in accordance with its fiduciary duties.
The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of 1.2m 2014, 2.3m.
The Laird PLC Employee Benefit Trust The Trust purchases and holds shares in Laird PLC for the benefit of current and former employees.
The Trust, which is financed by a loan of 2.0m from the Company, held 500,000 ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 2014, nil.
The shares held by the Trust had a total market value at that date of 1.8m 2014, nil.
