Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES For the 52 weeks ended 3 October 2015 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 3 October 2015 2014: 52 weeks ended 4 October 2014 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of certain items, principally land and buildings, derivative financial instruments, retirement benets and share-based payments.
Some of the prior period balances within cash and cash equivalents that were originally presented on a net basis in the balance sheet and the relevant notes have been represented on a gross basis to more accurately reect the underlying transactions and to be consistent with the current period presentation.
New standards and interpretations The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following new or revised standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial periods beginning on or after the dates disclosed below.
These standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments New accounting standard 1 January 2018 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Amendments regarding the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associateor joint venture 1 January 2016 Amendments regarding the application of the consolidation exception 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Amendments regarding the accounting for acquisitions of an interest in a joint operation 1 January 2016 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments regarding the application of the consolidation exception 1 January 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts New accounting standard 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers New accounting standard 1 January 2018 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments resulting from the disclosure initiative 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 Amendments bringing bearer plants into the scope of IAS 16 1 January 2016 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Amendments reinstating the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial statements 1 January 2016 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments regarding the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture 1 January 2016 Amendments regarding the application of the consolidation exception 1 January 2016 IAS 38 Intangible Assets Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 IAS 41 Agriculture Amendments bringing bearer plants into the scope of IAS 16 1 January 2016 The IASB have also issued a number of minor amendments to standards as part of their Annual Improvements to IFRS.
The Directors are considering the impact of the adoption of the above new standards and amendments on the Group.
74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of Marstons PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date on which control transferred to the Group or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has applied the purchase method in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration paid and deferred.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Marstons Issuer PLC and its parent company, Marstons Issuer Parent Limited.
Marstons Issuer PLC was set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt secured on assets owned by the Group.
Wilmington Trust SP Services London Limited holds the shares of Marstons Issuer Parent Limited under a declaration of trust for charitable purposes.
The rights provided to the Group through the securitisation give the Group power over these companies and the ability to use that power to affect its exposure to variable returns from them.
As such the Directors of Marstons PLC consider that these companies are controlled by the Group, as dened in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, and hence for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements they have been treated as subsidiary undertakings.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents the value of goods principally drink and food and services principally accommodation, gaming machines and third party brewing and packaging supplied to customers, and rent receivable from licensed properties.
Revenue from drink, food, accommodation, brewing and packaging is recognised at the point at which the goods or services are provided.
Gaming machine income is recognised as earned.
Rental income is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts, intra group transactions, VAT and excise duty relating to the brewing and packaging of certain products.
Other operating income mainly comprises rent receivable from unlicensed properties, which is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Operating segments For segment reporting purposes the Group is considered to have five distinguishable operating segments, being Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased, Brewing and Group Services.
This mirrors the Groups internal reporting structure, and reects the different distribution channels, customer proles and nature of products and services provided within each segment.
An element of Group Services costs is allocated to each of the trading segments.
The operating segments set out in note 2 are consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
For the purposes of IFRS 8 Operating Segments the chief operating decision maker has been identied as the Executive Directors.
Acquired businesses are treated as separate reporting segments, where material, until they have been fully integrated with the Groups operating segments.
Non-underlying items In order to illustrate the underlying trading performance of the Group, presentation has been made of performance measures excluding those items which it is considered would distort the comparability of the Groups results.
These non-underlying items comprise exceptional items and other adjusting items.
Exceptional items are dened as those items that, by virtue of their nature, size or expected frequency, warrant separate additional disclosure in the financial statements in order to fully understand the underlying performance of the Group.
As management of the freehold and leasehold property estate is an essential and significant area of the business, the threshold for classication of property related items as exceptional is higher than other items.
Other adjusting items comprise the revenue and expenses in respect of the ongoing management of the portfolio of 202 pubs disposed of in the prior period.
Following their disposal these pubs no longer form part of the Groups core activities and the Group does not have the ability to make strategic decisions in respect of them.
As such it is considered appropriate to exclude the results of these pubs from the Groups underlying results.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising on an acquisition are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of these assets can be identied separately and measuredreliably.
75 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES continued For the 52 weeks ended 3 October 2015 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Where the useful life of the asset is considered to be indefinite no annual amortisation is provided but the asset is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Impairment reviews are carried out more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired.
The useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are: Acquired brands indefinite Lease premiums Life of the lease Computer software 5 to 15 years Development costs 10 years Any impairment of carrying value is charged to the income statement.
Research and development expenditure All expenditure on the research phase of an internal project is expensed as incurred.
Development costs are recognised as an intangible asset when the following conditions are met: It is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset so that it will be available for use: Management intends to complete the asset and use or sell it: There is an ability to use or sell the asset: It can be demonstrated how the asset will generate probable future economic benets: Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset are available: and The expenditure attributable to the asset during its development can be reliably measured.
Other development expenditure that does not meet these criteria is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but instead is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that are consistent with the Groups operating segments.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold and leasehold properties are initially stated at cost and subsequently at valuation.
Plant and machinery and xtures, ttings, tools and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less residual value over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their residual value over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Plant and machinery and xtures, ttings, tools and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
Own labour and interest costs directly attributable to capital projects are capitalised.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Properties are revalued by qualied valuers on a sufciently regular basis using open market value so that the carrying value of an asset does not differ signicantly from its fair value at the balance sheet date.
Substantially all of the Groups properties have been externally valued in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Red Book.
These valuations are performed directly by reference to observable prices in an active market or recent market transactions on arms length terms.
Internal valuations are performed on the same basis.
The estate is reviewed for indication of impairment at each reporting date, using a process focusing on areas of risk and business performance throughout the portfolio to identify any exposure.
76 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the income statement.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent that they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case the reversal is recorded in the income statement.
Disposals of property, plant and equipment profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment represents net sale proceeds less the carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the property disposed of is transferred to retained earnings at the date of sale.
Impairment If there are indications of impairment or reversal of impairment, an assessment is made of the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets, including goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Where there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased, a reversal of the loss is made if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at revalued amount.
The reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other comprehensive income and increases the revaluation surplus for that asset.
However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset was previously recognised in the income statement, the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
There is no reversal of impairment losses relating to goodwill.
Acquired brands are reviewed for impairment on a portfolio basis.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases if the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged in accordance with the accounting policy for each class of asset concerned.
The corresponding capital obligations under these leases are shown as liabilities.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the income statement and classied within finance costs as incurred.
Rental costs under operating leases, including lease incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Similarly, income receivable under operating leases is credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Obligations arising from sale and leaseback arrangements with repurchase options that do not fall within the scope of IAS 17 Leases are classied as other lease related borrowings and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are valued on a first in, first out basis, with the exception of hops which are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in progress include direct materials, labour and a proportion of attributable overheads.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties and related xtures and ttings, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed.
In addition, the Group must be committed to the sale and completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classication.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
77 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES continued For the 52 weeks ended 3 October 2015 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial instruments The Group classies its financial assets in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The Group classies its financial liabilities in one of the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of the Groups financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are categorised as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as part of a hedging relationship.
The Group holds no other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables, other receivables, trade loans and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities are classied as other financial liabilities.
The Groups other financial liabilities comprise borrowings, trade payables and other payables.
Other financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the effective interestmethod.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired at each balance sheet date.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments that the Group enters into are interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate risk arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives which are not designated as part of a hedging relationship are presented in the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs in the period in which they arise.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair values of derivatives which are not designated as part of a hedging relationship are classied as current assets or liabilities.
Accrued interest is recognised separately in current assets or liabilities as appropriate.
At the inception of a hedging transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within exceptional finance income or costs.
Amounts that have been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash ow hedges are reclassied from equity to profit or loss as a reclassication adjustment in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast cash ow affects profit or loss.
78 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Trade receivables and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade or other receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the estimated future cash ows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within other net operating charges.
When a trade or other receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade or other receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against other net operating charges in the income statement.
Trade loans In common with other major brewers, the Group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the Groups beer.
These trade loans are classied as other non-current assets in the balance sheet and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
significant trade loans are secured against the property of the loan recipient.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits on call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
For the purpose of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Preference shares are classied as liabilities.
The dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except for interest costs incurred on the nancing of major projects, which are capitalised until the time that the projects are available for use.
Trade payables and other payables Trade payables and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Employee benets Pension costs for the Groups dened benefit pension plan are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at each period end date.
Costs are recognised in the income statement within both operating expenses and net finance costs.
The current service cost, past service cost and gains or losses arising from settlements are included within operating expenses.
The net interest on the net dened benefit asset liability and the administrative expenses paid from plan assets are included within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains or losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
The return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in the net interest on the net dened benefit asset liability, is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet for the dened benefit pension plan is the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
Where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the dened benefit obligation, the Group recognises an asset at the lower of the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligation, and the present value of any economic benets available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension costs for the Groups dened contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Post-retirement medical benets are accounted for in an identical way to the Groups dened benefit pension plan.
79 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES continued For the 52 weeks ended 3 October 2015 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Key management personnel Key management personnel are those who have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
In the case of Marstons PLC, the Directors of the Group are considered to be the only key management personnel.
Current and deferred tax The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, and which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Differences are dened as the differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
When valuations of leasehold properties based on future estimated income streams give rise to a deficit as a result of onerous lease conditions they are recognised as provisions.
These provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The key assumptions used in the discounted cash ow calculations are the discount rates, ination rates and market rents and vacant periods of the properties.
Other contractual property costs are also recorded as provisions as appropriate.
Share-based payments The fair value of share-based remuneration at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award.
The charge to the income statement takes account of the estimated number of shares that will vest.
Non-vesting conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value of the Groups share-based payments, and all cancellations of share-based payments, whether by the Group or by employees, are accounted for in an identical manner with any costs unrecognised at the date of cancellation being immediately accelerated.
Own shares Own shares comprise treasury shares, and shares held on trust for employee share schemes, which are used for the granting of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds and the original cost being taken to equity.
No income or expense is recognised in the performance statements on own share transactions.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at the period end are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Transactions and balance sheet items in a foreign currency Transactions in a foreign currency are translated to sterling using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary receivables and payables are remeasured at closing day rates at each balance sheet date.
Exchange gains or losses that arise from such remeasurement and on settlement of the transaction are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences for non-monetary assets valued at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Gains or losses on disposal of non-monetary assets are recognised in the income statement.
80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Key assumptions and significant judgements IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups key assumptions and significant judgements are in respect of property, plant and equipment, taxation, impairment, retirement benets, financial instruments, property lease provisions, share-based payments and non-underlying items.
Details of these assumptions and judgements are provided in the relevant accounting policy and detailed note to the financial statements as set out below: Property, plant and equipment Valuation of properties see accounting policy.
Assets useful lives and residual values see accounting policy.
Taxation Assumptions in respect of the resolution of outstanding corporate and indirect tax matters with HM Revenue & Customs see accounting policies for current and deferred tax and provisions.
Impairment Assumptions made in the value in use calculation, in particular the pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ow projections and the growth rate used to extrapolate projected cash ows beyond one year budgets notes 10 and 11.
Retirement benefits Actuarial assumptions in respect of the dened benefit pension plan, which include discount rates, rates of increase in pensionable salaries, rates of increase in pensions, ination rates and life expectancies note 25.
Recognition of a retirement benefit surplus see accounting policy.
Financial instruments Valuation of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market note 20.
Property lease provisions Assumptions made in the discounted cash ow calculations, in particular the market rents, vacant periods, ination rates and discount rates see accounting policy.
Share-based payments Inputs to the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which include dividend yields, expected volatilities and risk-free interest rates note 26.
Non-underlying items Determination of items to be classed as non-underlying see accounting policy.
