Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Disposals of xed assets profit loss on disposal of xed assets represents net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the xed assets disposed of is transferred to the profit and loss reserve at the date of sale.
Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within tangible xed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under those leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Lease premiums received are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Obligations arising from sale and leaseback arrangements with repurchase options that do not fall within the scope of SSAP 21 Accounting for leases and hire purchase contracts are classied as other lease related borrowings and accounted for in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for diminution in value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at the period end are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Preference shares Preference shares are treated as borrowings, and dividends payable on those preference shares are charged as interest in the profit and loss account.
Group undertakings There is an intra group funding agreement in place between the Company and certain other members of the Group.
This agreement stipulates that all balances outstanding on any intercompany loan account between these companies which exceed 1 are interest bearing at a prescribed rate.
In the prior period it was agreed that no interest would be charged on any balances due to from certain Group companies during the period of their restructuring.
There is a 12.5% subordinated loan due to the Company from Marstons Pubs Limited.
No interest is payable on any other amounts owed by to Group companies who are not party to the intra group funding agreement.
All amounts owed by to Group undertakings are unsecured and, with the exception of the subordinated loan, repayable on demand.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the Groups exposure to uctuations in interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Company has not designated any derivative financial instruments as hedging instruments and as such any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
2 AUDITORS REMUNERATION Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts are disclosed in note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Fees paid to the Companys Auditors for non-audit services to the Company itself are not required to be disclosed as the Group financial statements disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
