10 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Market review Meggitt benefits from a balanced portfolio.
Capability-based business units deploy Market matrix technological know-how and intellectual property across all our markets so we are not dependent on single customers, individual programmes or market segments.
Meggitt Polymers Meggitt Sensing Meggitt Group Meggitt Aircraft Meggitt Control Systems & Composites Systems Equipment Group Braking Systems Civil 6% 25% 27% 32% 2% 20% Original equipment Aftermarket 69% 35% 16% 15% 1% 29% Military 25% 26% 56% 28% 61% 35% Energy 9% 1% 13% 22% 9% Other 5% 12% 14% 7% Meggitts core civil aerospace, military Large jet deliveries in 2015 stood at a below the peak in 2008.
Inventories of and energy markets share a common record 1,389, 1% higher than in 2014. used aircraft are continuing to decline, requirement for smart engineering for Future growth estimated at an average of although falling commodity prices are extreme environments: missionand 5-6% per annum is underpinned by the likely to reduce demand in the near term.
safety-critical components and suborder books of Boeing and Airbus, the two As with regional aircraft, the fleet is systems that operate flawlessly for many major civil aircraft manufacturers, which becoming increasingly globalcustomers years in highly demanding operating extend to eight years at current production in the Americas currently comprise 75% conditions, from a supplier capable of levels, with other manufacturers investing of the global business jet fleet but order meeting rigorous certification in the large jet market including trends suggest this will move to around requirements.
The extreme environments Bombardier, Sukhoi and COMAC.
Ten years ago, in which many of our products operate high level of demand for new aircraft, the Americas represented 84% of the results in high levels of wear and tear, deliveries of which have grown at an global fleet.
Over the medium term, we which drives aftermarket revenues average of over 8% during the last five see deliveries continuing to recover, stretching out for many decades from years, has been driven in part by high oil driven by increasing globalisation and an initial product delivery.
prices, the relatively low cost of debt and improving economic growth outlook in the wave of newer, more fuel-efficient developed economies, enhanced by the aircraft coming to market including large number of new aircraft models due Civil aerospace Boeings 737MAX, Airbus A320neo and to enter into service in the coming years.
Civil aerospace accounts for 49% of Group the CSeries from Bombardier.
Despite the revenue, with products and sub-systems recent decrease in oil prices, the strong Meggitt performance installed on almost every jet airliner, order backlogs mean that no significant Meggitts civil original equipment OE regional aircraft and business jet in reduction in new aircraft demand is revenue grew organically by 4% in 2015, service.
The global fleet of aircraft has expected in the short term.
with good growth in 737 and A320 families grown significantly in recent years, of aircraft and initial OE revenue from the totalling over 44,000 aircraft today versus Regional aircraft deliveries of 297 in 2015 A350XWB offsetting modest reductions in 32,000 a decade ago.
New aircraft represented a 10% increase on 2014, with A330 and A380 platforms.
Large jet deliveries drive sales of original an increasing proportion of these being deliveries drive the majority of our OE equipment and aircraft utilisation 70-plus seat aircraft where we have a revenues, involving the supply of products generates demand for spare parts and particularly strong market share.
and sub-systems on engines and repairs over many decades, so the growth Deliveries look set to continue at this level airframes covering thermal management of our fleet is a strong indication of future over the medium term.
Regional fleets and fluid control, fire protection, aftermarket revenue growth.
outside North America account for over condition-monitoring and high-integrity 50% of the global fleet, up from 10% a electronics.
Our largest exposure to Original equipment decade ago.
regional aircraft and business jets is We classify civil aircraft by seat capacity: Business jet deliveries totalled 717, a 6% through our wheels and brakes business, large jets 100 seats, regional aircraft increase on 2014, although considerably which provides most original equipment 100 seats and business jets.
indd 10 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 11 free of charge to civil aircraft retirement of old aircraft and the manufacturers.
Strong OE performance subsequent harvesting of serviceable is also driven by shipset values on new components from these aircraft.
The aircraft which exceed those of their impact of spare parts harvesting, or predecessors.
Order books and delivery surplus parts, has intensified in recent forecasts remain robust and lend years, driven by increased availability of confidence in organic growth prospects parked aircraft which can be broken up ahead of the market growth rate over the and heightened sophistication in third medium term.
party repair and distribution capability, which has caused a greater than expected Aftermarket dislocation between aircraft utilisation The civil aerospace aftermarket is driven and aftermarket demand.
Recent primarily by aircraft utilisation which, organisational changes have been made for large jets and regional aircraft, is in the Group with the formation of CSS, measured using available seat kilometres which will leave us better equipped to ASKs.
We use take-offs and landings as directly address the surplus parts issue.
a proxy for business jet utilisation.
Meggitt performance ASKs in the commercial aircraft fleet Meggitts organic aftermarket revenue grew 5.8% in 2015, above the 5% longwas up 3% for the year, with 5% growth in term average.
The Middle East and Asia the first half decelerating to 2% growth in saw particularly strong growth, with the the second.
Air traffic was good given the US market showing a steady recovery.
Regional aircraft utilisation picked up However, aftermarket revenue growth noticeably, driven by the recovery in North overall was held back by the parting out America.
Business jet utilisation in the US of old aircraft resulting from the high and Europe continued to exhibit the delivery rates of new, more fuel-efficient gradual improvement seen for the last aircraft.
Large jet aftermarket, where the two years, with take-offs and landings in effect of parting out is most pronounced, 2015 up by over 2% versus 2014.
We would particularly in components with normally expect our aftermarket longlifecycles, saw flat revenue on revenues to follow these leading anorganic basis.
indicators after a lag of a few months.
However, revenue can be impacted by Regional aircraft and business jets are short-term perturbations including important contributors to the Groups destocking or restocking cycles, aftermarket revenue.
The continued increased pooling of spares between increase in fleet size and recovery in airlines and MRO providers and excess regional aircraft utilisation in 2015 spare part inventory arising from the boosted overall aftermarket growth.
Available seat kilometres ASKs billions 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Source: Meggitt management estimates 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
Lower demand for new equipment and deferrals of capital projects in oil and gas markets reflected USA the impact of lower commodity prices on 330.7 | 58% the investment appetite of exploration Europe and production companies.
The market 570.2 148.3 | 26% has also seen reduced demand for gas turbines used in power generation, Rest of World driven by reduced investment by utilities.
91.2 | 16% Longer term, however, the power generation market remains very Our regional aircraft aftermarket part by weaker orders in 2015 and the attractive, with increasing global demand revenue grew organically by 4% in the anticipated lag between budget approval for power driven by population growth year, with business jet aircraft revenue and cash deployment, opportunities and increasing levels of industrialisation up 11% organically.
remain for the reset and upgrade of in emerging economies.
Meanwhile, the repatriated equipment and the supply structural demand drivers for the oil Aircraft utilisation remains very of new products as a significant tranche and gas market remain strong.
Gas, encouraging, with ASKs now tracking of military assets reach the end of their particularly is a relatively low-cost comfortably above the long-term average.
high-efficiency energy source, and our The reduction we have seen in aircraft Heatric product fulfils a core retirements over the last twelve months Meggitt performance technological requirement of this market.
is an encouraging indicator that the Meggitts military revenue was flat on an There are also significant opportunities headwind we have been experiencing organic basis in 2015, with good growth for Heatric, our printed circuit heat from the parting out of older aircraft may in the first half being offset by a weaker exchanger business, outside of its core subside over time, although we expect the second half.
The second half weakness oil and gas market, including in power negative impact of parting out to persist reflected tougher comparators, the timing generation where a contract for the through 2016.
Over the medium term, of programme deliveries and the US DoD provision of heat exchangers for an however, we maintain confidence in our entering a period of Continuing Resolution.
innovative power station design is ability to grow aftermarket revenue currently being fulfilled.
above the broader civil spares market.
Our exposure to a broad range of fixed and rotary wing aircraft, ground vehicles, Meggitt performance training facilities and naval vessels across Military Meggitts energy revenue declined 20% original equipment and aftermarket spares Military accounts for 35% of Group on an organic basis in 2015.
Sales to and repairs has enabled us to demonstrate revenue.
Meggitt has equipment on around power generation customers increased resilience in a challenging environment 21,000 aircraft and a variety of ground modestly, with a good recovery from a over the last few years.
Military markets vehicles, naval vessels and training weak 2014 in the first half of the year look to be entering a more benign installations worldwide.
During 2015, 58% tailing off through the second half as environment now, with budgets in many of our military revenue came from US investment budgets became more regions expected to return to growth for customers, with 26% from Europe and constrained.
Revenue at Heatric, which the first time in a number of years.
This 16% from the rest of the world.
accounts for 35% of our overall energy will present opportunities through the revenue, declined by 40% as the expansion of the fleet of programmes on Defence budgets in some key markets investment projects of our oil and gas which we have good content, such as the remained under pressure in 2015, notably customers were deferred following the F-35 and Rafale, as well as retrofit work in the US where the effect of recent reduction in the oil price.
arising following the repatriation of budget cuts and the Continuing Resolution equipment from the recent conflict in in the latter part of the year impacted the Heightened demand for our printed circuit Afghanistan, and the reinvestment in timing and size of orders.
Declining heat exchangers driven by a strong military training systems for a number commodity prices have also had an impact project pipeline and increasing market of armed forces, where we have seen on budgets in the Middle East, although share in condition-monitoring equipment considerable contract success in recent European markets remained stable.
The should continue to deliver strong revenue years.
Accordingly, we are targeting overall outlook for defence spending, growth over the medium term.
In the organic revenue growth in the low-singlehowever, is more positive than it has been short term, however, we anticipate digit percentage range in the medium term.
for a number of years, with a recently modest growth in energy control valves agreed budget increase in the US budget and condition monitoring to be more than spread over 2016 and 2017 and modest offset by further weakness at Heatric, Energy increases in European budgets in where further project deferrals are Our energy business accounted for 9% of response to greater perceived threat anticipated as capital expenditure Group revenue in 2015.
We target power levels resulting in a more benign budgets continue to be pared back.
generation and oil and gas markets with budgetary environment than has been condition-monitoring hardware and seen since the financial crisis in 2008 9. software, control valves for aero-derivative While we do not expect an immediate gas turbines and microturbines, and printed rebound in military expenditure, driven in circuit heat exchanger technology.
