20 20 M ME EG GG GI IT TT T P PL LC C R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND D A AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 01 15 5 CUSTOMER FOCUS Reclaiming our aftermarket In May 2015, Meggitt launched the first phase of its centralised Customer Services & Support CSS organisation, streamlining the Groups interface with aftermarket customers.
The global operating model, launched in January 2016, is designed to develop the agility Meggitt needs to compete in the increasingly dynamic market for spares and repairs.
Its success is one of the Groups strategic priorities.
We will succeed by delivering superb service throughout the product lifecycle and, ultimately, helping our airline customers run their operations as cost-effectively as possible, says Lorraine Rienecker, the new organisations President.
he civil aftermarket is changing.
The launch of CSS during 2015 was the first Control Systems and Meggitt Sensing While traffic growth, the underlying step on the road to reclaiming Meggitts Systemsplus those of Meggitt Aircraft Tdriver of aftermarket demand, aftermarket in adynamic market Braking Systems UK facility in Coventry.
remains strong, we need to respond to a environment with many cross-currents.
As CSS develops and matures, it will take maturing market and increased responsibility for more of Meggitts Phase one saw the establishment of a competition.
Better data is resulting in aftermarket operations.
While complete management team to centralise delayed and extended maintenance control over operational performance will customer-facing teams.
The sales effort intervals, while bigger, stronger lead to systemic improvement and has been organised regionally and by key integrators are offering larger best-practice sharing, Rienecker wants to account to offer a greatly simplified maintenance packages and capturing a optimise the opportunity to meet interface to customersone single source greater share of the aftermarket as airlines customers requirements for the long of service rather than multiple points of continue to outsource maintenance repair term.
A fully mature CSS organisation will contact across capabilities and regions.
enable us properly align all elements of The Group has been disproportionately Its all about maximising Meggitt revenue impacted by cyclical threats in recent times, cutting demand for its highest acrossthe life cycle by creating an innovation margin spares.
Aircraft from the cycle of the late 1980s to early 1990s are reaching loop.
Theopportunities to boost Meggitts their natural retirement age and are increasing the supply of surplus parts.
product pipelines with upgrades and next However, says Lorraine Rienecker, we must assume this will continue for some generation products are significant time, and adjust accordingly.
The aim of the new organisation is to The feedback from customers has been our aftermarket services across the simplify the interface between Meggitt universally positive.
Our customers are product lifecycle.
We need starting to see the number of Meggitt CSS is not a discrete organisation within to coordinate the efforts of sales and phone numbers in their address books the Group.
To guarantee CSS success, we customer support personnel more cut and their understanding of Meggitts are remaining fully integrated with our effectively and build partnerships for full range of capabilities rise, says original equipment businesses and will growth.
Common metrics will be Rienecker.
retain strong interfaces at all levels, says established for all Meggitt aftermarket CSSs initial operational responsibility Rienecker.
Clearly, this is critical if CSS is operations to ensure that every team rises centred on existing dedicated aftermarket to maintain high ratings on its customers to the cost, quality and delivery standards facilities in Singapore, UK, Germany and set by the best.
CSS will facilitate a more delivery scorecards.
However, CSS wants efficient feedback loop between the United States.
At the beginning of to communicate a greater understanding customers and Meggitt engineering 2016, it assumed responsibility for key of operators needs and in-service product teams, delivering the data needed to commercial and military aerospace performance to Meggitts original design product upgrades to improve spares distribution and the MRO equipment engineering teams.
operations of two divisionsMeggitt about maximising Meggitt revenue across 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
indd 20 07 03 2016 04:15 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP POR ORT T G GO OV five ER RN NA ANC NCE E R RE EP POR ORT TS S F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S S SU UP PP PL LE EM ME EN NT TA AR RY Y I IN NF FOR ORM MA AT TION ION 21 21 Meggitt Customer Services & Support will capture value across the product lifecycle, delivering field data that will enable profitable original equipment modifications and upgrades for near-term growth and brand-new products for next generation platforms.
Lorraine Rienecker, President, Meggitt Customer Services & Support.
the lifecycle by creating an innovation trend analysis behind it, our team of place last year, CSS is developing it outstanding product designers will be further to meet its obligations for new loop, she explains.
The opportunities to extremely well-placed to redesign aircraft entering service.
We want to boost Meggitts product pipelines with longer-life products for retrofit.
make it more efficient for the operators upgrades and next generation products and more cost-effective for the Group so are significant.
or the moment, Meggitt has an 24 7 support will be delivered with fewer immediate requirement to start To ensure that the new organisation is points of contact and optimised inventory Fthinking like an aftermarket trader.
equipped to exploit retrofit, modification management, says Rienecker.
The surplus market has expanded with and upgrade opportunities, CSS technical parts from retired fuel-inefficient aircraft, CSS operations will be underpinned by teams are now focusing on developing and Meggitt is now participating through the Meggitt Production System.
This will more in-depth reliability and maintenance a partnership with a leading provider of make fast, efficient service as much a data for all Meggitt products.
Over the aviation services and logistics to repair competitive advantage in aftermarket past 18 months Meggitt Control Systems and resell as removed parts.
Rienecker centres as it is for those facilities MCS has systematised electronic MRO is confident: The OEM tag remains concerned with the industrialisation data capture to better understand product of product for original equipment important and provides our customers performance in the field.
This meets the with the assurance that their products manufacturers.
There are many aviation industrys Spec2000 requirement have been repaired by those who know outstanding aftermarket teams at Meggitt for industry partners to exchange detailed them bestthe Meggitt designer and but the competition is becoming stronger information easily and cost-effectively.
The partnership will and airlines are having a greater Having successfully deployed Spec2000 also provide better insights into realinfluence over their supply chain.
on MCS legacy product lines, CSS will time market value and demand for Meggitts original equipment customers now drive a global project to deploy this Meggitt product.
the airframers and engine-makers data-recording methodology across all want to partner with suppliers who can From a commercial perspective, with its Meggitt facilities performing MRO deliver for their customers.
MPS will developing understanding of in-service services.
Capturing data is only the ensure CSS provides that assurance.
revenues and opportunities, CSS will start, Rienecker emphasises.
Having enable more precision in Meggitts After spending close to a decade as the processes to accurately assess and contract arrangements with customers Meggitts Executive Vice President of interpret the data and to act on the for new and existing products across all Strategy, Sales & Marketing, Rienecker findings are critical.
This is why designing is enjoying the opportunity to specialise stages of their lifecycles.
them will be a priority for CSS and Group in one business, albeit a multi-faceted engineering over the next 12 months.
CSS is also reviewing its distributor one.
In the OE market, programmes can Thegoal is to provide mid-life, product network.
It is fragmented, complex be very long.
The aftermarket is much refreshment opportunities, boosting the and costly to manage.
Over the next few more dynamic and service-driven.
I am, operating economics of the airlines.
years, that network will be rationalised however, delighted to be working within and strengthened, with communication As the original equipment manufacturer, the entrepreneurial service culture of channels improved through one Rienecker believes Meggitt has intrinsic the aftermarket trade, backed by our OE CSS interface.
Our customers businessesafter all, they are the best want to keep their parts on wing for as After putting a centralised  of our products and the best engineers.
With more data and ground AOG emergency call centre in 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
