22 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE Why MPS counts Why our Bronze is their Gold The first Meggitt operating facility to enter the fourth Bronze stage of the Meggitt Production System looks like a business that is on the home straight Quality up 87% to operations excellence.
However, it could take the groups Customer Services & Support hub in Singapore between one and two years of hard yards to make the exacting Meggitt grade, which Safety: lost-time incidents down includes rigorous financial targets.
20% in 2015 on 2014 On-time delivery up 14% Continuous improvement activities 486 in 2014 1,481 in 2015 Left: No going back to the old days, James Mariadass, Site Leader, Customer Services & Support, Singapore.
Right: MPS is the way we do business.
Group Operations Director, Amir Allahverdi.
he Meggitt Production System MPS phases, however, without meeting rigorous little uncomfortable, thinking they were is a six-stage operating system financial targets.
Now Tdesigned to make operations employees understand that DLA is not James Mariadass, whose facility is now in excellence a core competitive strength.
about targeting individuals but issues and the fourth Bronze Meggitt Production The early stages focus on tools and how we, as a team, go about resolving them.
System phase, explains how it works.
As a techniques that enable products to be UIltimately, this leads to happy employees starting point, MPS is not a rigidly applied delivered, consistently, on time and to the as they have an avenue to resolve difficult set of tools and structures but a required specification.
The continuous issues, up the line, on a daily basis.
framework that local leaders and elimination of waste is intrinsic to the employees can adopt and adapt to realities Green fans MPS into the functions that system.
Practised at the highest level, on the ground.
Implementing it like a feed the factory floor and focuses on MPS aims to deliver superior incremental check list doesnt work.
Full involvement material and inventory management, sales growth and performance as leadership, of everyone is essential, backed by good inventory and order processing, supplier liberated by smoothly-running operations, cross-functional collaboration.
It is really can focus more on maximising returns about further developing an open crossAnd the phases?
from trading assets and long-term functional network to resolve issues and Thats when we set up our visual factory business strategy.
Ultimately, it tests the boards, define our metrics, look at resilience of our approach.
organisation and structure and start to ince its launch in 2013, all Meggitts work with basic Lean and related Mariadass has joked with his people main facilities, apart from the recent continuous improvement CI tools.
Its aboutgoing back to the old days.
The Scomposites acquisitions, have very much about problem-solving and response was universal: We couldnt go entered the first Red phase with many removing barriers to success.
back to phone calls and emails and moving into the second, Yellow, and third, departmental meetings.
The initial goal is tactical Yellow is about culture change.
Daily Singapores staff retention figures prove quality and delivery improvement and the Layered Accountability DLA meetings get the point, contributing to a reduction in establishment of a sustainable continuous maximum involvement from everyone theGroups overall personnel turnover improvement culture.
Facilities will not be technicians all the way to the site leader.
by50% in 2015. able to graduate from the next three At the beginning, employees would be a 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
indd 22 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 23 tarting with Bronze, precious start to make efficiency gains, Meggitt Production System metals denote operations excellence consolidating spares inventory in fewer Sat a Meggitt facility as a core sites, he says.
If the interface between competitive strength.
CSS facilities is critical, CSS must also create effective links into Meggitts Customers of a Bronze Meggitt factory original equipment engineering teams to are very happy indeed, Amir Allahverdi, deliver the field performance data needed Meggitt Group Operations Director, for profitable mid-life product refresh explains, Our Bronze rating maps well opportunities.
to customers own Gold standards.
So whats the point of our Silver and Gold?
And this, emphasises Allahverdi, is where At these levels of operations excellence, a world-class Meggitt operating model Customer satisfaction factories run like clockwork.
While reliable Quality and on-time delivery Management can lift its gaze away from processes and open, regular internal problem-solving to growth communication have boosted employee filling our factory pipelines with new morale on the production floor, MPS also business.
Silver and Gold operations equips functions, businesses and anticipate customer demands and market divisions to work together at the macro forces, rather than being driven only by level.
The languages of problem-solving immediate requirements.
It is the point and continuous improvement are the While reliable processes and open, regular communication have boosted employee morale on the production floor, MPS equips functions, Competitive advantage Exacting financial targets businesses and divisions to work together at the macro level.
The languages of problem-solving and continuous improvement are the same at which operational advantage must turn same.
Meggitts progress in operating management council was established to to real strategic and financial advantage.
efficiency in just three years has been fully deploy Meggitts highly developed Mariadass is already starting to ease into exceptional.
In aggregate, the Groups programme life cycle management the new way of thinking.
Instead of being on-time delivery OTD has risen by 14% processes.
A functional launch was pushed by sales guys to fulfill orders, I and quality is up by 87%.
undertaken by the Groups HR operations am finding myself pushing the sales guys team.
Meggitts supply chain was And customers have noticed.
MPS to top up my production pipeline.
risk-assessed prior to starting a immersion attracted one of our power programme of relationship development He is particularly excited about the product businesses largest orders.
Singapore operation becoming part of the a supplier assessment, Meggitt was In 2016, Allahverdi will turn up the new Customer Services & Support CSS lauded as the only one to have temperature again at facility level to organisation.
It is now responsible for demonstrated deep understanding across deliver more, more quickly.
Now MPS most of Meggitts spares distribution and multiple facilities of Lean deployment and principles and practice are embedded MRO operations in Asia and he is keen for standardised improvement processes.
across Meggitt, the MPS cadre will focus his new sister facilities to catch up.
His Another chose Meggitt to pilot the next on 12 Meggitt sites to accelerate Singapore-based facility is at the sharp revision to its supplier health breakthrough improvements in the year.
end of the aftermarket where a Mach 3 assessment.
Endorsed by customers, These include three of the eight approach to service is a basic several Meggitt businesses are using businesses acquired by Meggitt Polymers requirement.
He knows that there can be MPS to map out realisable paths to & Composites at the end of 2015 see no weak links in the chain of CSS supplier Gold in 2016a critical Technology, page 18.
Bronze for Mariadass, accreditation for quality and on-time future progress.
Meggitt has a wider therefore, points the way to a proactive delivery that is the price of entry for next vision of excellence and the potential of an approach to building the strong network generation aircraft programme bids.
A entire organisation equipped to execute needed to build even stronger top original equipment customer was so strategy smoothly and run on world-class aftermarket service and improved impressed by progress at one facility, he processesprocesses that maximise the financial performance.
return on trading assets and link us And there are plenty of tools to assist.
Allahverdi and team have already been inextricably to customers, suppliers and Now that MPSs global SIOPsales orchestrating change on a grander scale each other.
For now, Allahverdi is inventory order processingprocess has in 2015.
MPS was launched at divisional impressed by what he describes as a matured, the scope for advanced planning level, leading to Meggitt Sensing Systems critical identity level achievement for the and forecasting is greater in the new value stream structure see People Group.
MPS is part of who we are at expanding CSS organisation.
SIOP is and culture, page 24 and a clearlyMeggitt and theres no going back.
firmly established in Singapore and if we defined approach to leadership share this best practice, we can really development.
