18 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 TECHNOLOGY Why composites count Growing composites capabilities At the close of 2015, Meggitt acquired two new Aerospace businesses in one of the fastest growing sectors composites market 5.1 billion of aerospaceadvanced carbon fibre composites.
worldwide This exemplifies a sharp focus on strategic investment in higher growth market segments with attractive Greater than 7% fundamentals and the potential to lead the market compound annual through differentiated technology and advanced growth per annum manufacturing processes.
Strong as conventional 40% alloys, 40% less density Maintenance costs up to 30% lower Faster product development and industrialisation cycles David Horner, President of Meggitt Polymers & Composites.
rotecting helicopter engine air Meggitt Polymers & Composites had a Percentage inlets and mission-critical flight long-held strategy to focus on complex reduction Pcomponents from the effects of ice secondary structures that are of less build-up is the geometric and thermal in weight interest to the manufacturers of primary challenge in which Meggitt Polymers & wings and fuselages.
David Horner corresponds to Composites has excelled for 50 years.
explains These Tier 1 producers like percentage With its complete understanding of very large structures made from fibre reduction thermosetting composite materials that can be placed along a consistent arc in fuel which it also applies to structures and by machine, not man.
Its very capital specialist assemblies resistant to intensive.
We, on the other hand, like hand corrosion, lightning strikes and fatigue lay-up, complex secondary structures, the division remains the industrys difficult geometries and tight tolerances.
Up to 50% of next leading supplier.
And thats exactly the type of work we are generation aircraft going to build on with our new businesses.
This is the core of expertise Meggitt has will be composite extended through the acquisition of the The market for complex secondary advanced composites businesses of structures is very fragmented.
Very small Cobham plc Advanced Composites and producers take simple, low-value EDAC.
The two deals concluded a components and build them to the year-long review of assets in this market Estimated designers specifications.
Aerospace after the Groups 2014 strategy review carbon fibre customers want suppliers with greater identified engine composites, in expertise and scale.
They want mature market CAGR particular, as a fast-growing market manufacturing processes that reduce 9.9% opportunity on which Meggitt was risk, continues Horner.
indd 18 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 19 ith Meggitt Polymers & Composites new scale, now Weve got scale W1.5 million square feet of manufacturing space in Europe and the Meggitt Polymers & Composites Americas, comes an extension of the Groups intellectual property.
Was Now The acquisitions extend Meggitts smart engineering for extreme environments REVENUE 170 million c300 million further into manufacturing processes.
For radomes and electro-thermal ice FACILITIES 4 12 protection, the smart engineering with which Meggitt has been so traditionally SQUARE FEET 1 million 1.5 million associated is still very necessary, says Horner, but the essential qualifier for EMPLOYEES 1,800 2,900 engine composites and secondary OUTPUT Glass-fibre based Carbon fibre structures is manufacturing process IP for extreme environments.
In the world of composites, customers provide the engineering drawing for a and premier positions in the growing One of the most exciting growth given component and the composite inflight wifi market and in structural opportunities relates to the highly supplier is responsible for addressing the components.
specified radomes it already produces in geometric challenge.
To develop optimal repeatable high quality volumes for major EDACs engine composites order pipeline is solutions, those suppliers need to deploy fighter jets, maritime aircraft and worth over USD600 million for the next four a range of tools and materials.
Our new electronic warfare platforms, including years.
Meggitt is now on every major composites businesses may have the P8 Poseidon, Eurofighter Typhoon, commercial aerospace platform worldwide, competitors for individual processes but F16 and F18 variants and the Apache including the fastest growing engines: there are none offering the required Attack Helicopter.
LEAP, the PW1000G, the GEnX and the GE90.
Meggitt is well-placed to capitalise on many Gogo, a leading internet service provider The list of Meggitt Polymers & Composites more opportunities to replace metal with on commercial and business aircraft, capabilities includes resin and vacuumcomposite as customers work their way recorded a transmission peak of 3.1 assisted resin transfer moulding, through the engine, converting as much as million bits per second in 2010 and compression mouldingup to six-axis they can based on available technologies, forecast a peak of 70 million this year.
Its new system has a higher transmission explains: I had a discussion with a capability by some order of magnitude, all While EDAC was a predominantly civil customer recently about how we might of which will go through Meggitt radomes.
business whose capability grew with replace an aluminium part with composite.
The business is taking this capability into progressive civil engine manufacturers, If we had been just EDAC, we would have the global inflight connectivity market, Advanced Composites evolved by had two ways to do it.
If we were just talking which is experiencing very high and responding to demanding military Advanced Compositesalso two ways.
Weight and cost savings Meggitt, with our established integration on both sides of the Atlantic, Meggitt aside, they are in demand for stealth and expertise and capabilities, we now have six ways to do it.
And thats what counts if you Its our formulaour process IPthat enables want to provide a solution that is not only great technically but makes sense us to make the highly complex parts that commercially.
Composites deliver in-service weight virtually no one else in the world can make efficiencies plus design flexibility, lower is positioned well tosurf this wave, costs and shorter cycle timesproviding low radar observability and high degrees partnering with Gogo, the global leader they are manufactured by experienced of engine performance and extreme in inflight connectivity.
High tech equipment isnt worth aerodynamics.
Its our formulaour Meggitt Polymers & Composites ticks Its engine components, which encompass process IPthat controls heat and pressure many of the technology boxes that will flight critical products such as spinners and at six different angles and enables us to secure positions on next generation stators, exhaust flaps and internal multimake the highly complex parts that aircraftcomposite engine components, stage components, are present on highvirtually no-one else in the world can, secondary structures, radomes and ice volume, high-growth platforms like the Joint saysHorner.
These are the foundation on Strike Fighter.
There are now 100 Meggitt which Meggitt will build its scale composite parts on the F135 engine for the Engine of growth composites business, one that is F35, one of the US Department of Defenses He had ambitious growth plans for Meggitt diversified across military and civil most significant programmes.
Polymers & Composites existing markets and one that has the capacity Advanced Composites had also secured composites businesses.
These acquisitions to satisfy the demanding production good commercial business, enhancing take that ambition very much further.
requirements of the impending ramp-up Meggitts positions on the A320neo, Meggitt now has first-class customer in production of new models.
C-Series, MRJ, 777X, 787, A380 and relationships in Europe and North America the G650.
on the high growth engine programmes, 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
