STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements When asubsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair value 1.
Basis of preparation of consideration received or receivable and the value at whichnet Meggitt PLC is apublic limited company listed on the London Stock assets of the subsidiary were recorded, immediately prior to disposal, Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in is recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
Its registered Any contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at office is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth the date of disposal in determining the gain or loss to be recognised.
Contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes in fair value recorded Meggitt PLC is the parent company of aGroup whose principal in the income statement within net operating costs.
activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence When aforeign subsidiary is disposed, the cumulative exchange and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, differences relating to the retranslation of the net investment in the test and automotive.
foreign subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
This applies only to exchange differences The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared recorded in equity after 1 January 2004.
Exchange differences in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards arising prior to 1 January 2004 remain in equity on disposal as IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act permitted by IFRS 1 First time Adoption of International Financial 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
financial statements have been prepared on agoing concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Transactions between, and balances with, Group companies are certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative eliminated together with unrealised gains on inter-group transactions.
Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the asset transferred is not impaired.
The accounting policies of acquired businesses are 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies changed where necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Foreign currencies These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented Functional and presentational currency unless stated otherwise.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in poundssterling.
Items included in the financial statements of each of Basis of consolidation the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements oftheprimary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
ofthe Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Asubsidiary is an entity over Transactions and balances which the Group has control.
The Group has control over an entity Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at exchange rates where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and from its involvement with the entity, and it has the power over the entity liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at exchange to affect those returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are fully rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on consolidated from the date on which control transfers to the Group.
retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the The results of subsidiaries disposed are fully consolidated up to the income statement within net operating costs except where they relate date on which control transfers from the Group.
to qualifying cash flow hedges or net investment hedges in which case The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration provided, exchange differences are recognised in hedging and translation including the fair value of any contingent consideration, as measured reserves within other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration payable is measured Foreign subsidiaries at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average exchange in fair value recorded in the income statement within net operating rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are costs.
Identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired business translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the results at fair value at the date of acquisition.
To the extent the cost of an andopening net assets of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in acquisition exceeds the fair value of net assets acquired, the difference hedging and translation reserves within other comprehensive income.
To the extent the fair value of net assets Exchange differences on borrowings designated as net investment acquired exceeds the cost of an acquisition, the difference is recorded hedges of foreign subsidiaries are also recognised in hedging and immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
Costsdirectly attributable to an acquisition are recognised in the income statement within net operating costs as incurred.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition ofaforeign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities of the When asubsidiary is acquired, the fair value of its identifiable assets subsidiary and are retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Allfair value adjustments are recorded with effect from the date of acquisition and consequently may result in the restatement of previously reported financial results.
98 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Revenue from services 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
For cost-plus fixed fee contracts, revenue is recognised Segment reporting equal to the costs incurred plus an appropriate proportion of the fee Operating segments are those segments for which results are agreed with the customer.
For other contracts, the stage of completion reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved, to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be number of aircraft flying hours or number of aircraft landings.
The CODM has been identified as the Board see page 52 Revenue from funded research and development of the Corporate governance report.
The Group has determined that Revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of the its segments are Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control contract.
The stage of completion is typically measured by reference Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems tocontractual milestones achieved.
and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Meggitt Avionics business was Exceptional operating items transferred from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Sensing Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which are Systems.
Prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect considered non-recurring and which are excluded from the underlying thischange in divisional structure.
profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying underlying performance of the Group see note 10 are classified as operating profit as defined in note 10.
Asegmental analysis of exceptional operating items.
They include, for instance, costs directly underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in the notes attributable to the integration of an acquired business, significant tothefinancial statements.
site consolidation costs and other significant restructuring costs.
Exceptional operating items are included within the appropriate Segmental information on assets is provided in the notes to the consolidated income statement category but are highlighted financial statements in respect of trading assets, which are defined to separatelyin the notes to the financial statements.
exclude from total assets, amounts which the CODM does not review at asegmental level.
Excluded assets comprise centrally managed Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and trading assets, goodwill, other intangible assets excluding software closure of abusiness assets, derivative financial instruments, deferred tax assets, current tax recoverable and cash and cash equivalents.
These items are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the No segmental information on liabilities is provided in the notes to the Group see note 10.
They include, for instance, gains or losses made financial statements, as no such measure is reviewed by the CODM.
on the disposal or closure of abusiness, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business Revenue recognition or receivable in respect of adisposed business and costs directly Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or attributable to the acquisition of abusiness.
Amounts are included receivable in respect of goods and services provided in the normal within the appropriate consolidated income statement category but are course of business to external customers, net of trade discounts, highlighted separately in the notes to the financial statements.
returns and sales related taxes.
Intangible assets Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of Goodwill ownership have transferred to the customer, managerial involvement Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair and control of the goods is not retained by the Group, the revenue and value of the Groups share of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities costs associated with the sale can be measured reliably and the and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is tested annually for collection of related receivables is probable.
In the majority of impairment, and also whenever events or changes in circumstances instances these conditions are met when delivery to the customer indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
In aminority of instances bill and hold arrangements carried at cost less amortisation charged prior to 1 January 2004 less exist whereby revenue is recorded prior to delivery but only when the accumulated impairment losses.
In the event the subsidiary to which customer has accepted title to the goods, the goods are separately goodwill relates is disposed, its attributable goodwill is included in the identifiable and available for delivery on terms agreed with the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
customer and normal credit terms apply.
Research and development Contract accounting revenue Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the income The Group is usually able to reliably estimate the outcome of acontract statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred on projects where at inception and accordingly recognises revenue and cost of sales by the related expenditure is separately identifiable, measurable and reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Revenue is management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and commercial typically measured by applying to total contract revenue, the viability of the project and that the asset will generate future economic proportion costs incurred for work performed in the period bear to benefit based on all relevant available information are recognised as total estimated contract costs.
Where it is not possible to reliably an intangible asset.
Capitalised development costs are carried at cost estimate the outcome of acontract, revenue is recognised equal to less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is costs incurred, provided recovery of such costs is probable.
If total charged over the periods expected to benefit, typically up to 15 years, contract costs are forecast to exceed total contract revenue then the commencing with launch of the product.
Development costs not expected loss is recorded immediately in the income statement.
meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 99 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or production Programme participation costs of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to Original until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended Equipment Manufacturers in connection with their selection of the use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take asubstantial Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group period of time to get ready for their intended use, which would generally has obtained principal supplier status.
These incentives comprise be at least 12 months.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the cash payments and or the supply of initial manufactured parts on income statement as incurred.
afree of charge or deeply discounted basis.
Programme participation costs are recognised as an intangible asset and carried at cost less Taxation accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
For manufactured parts supplied on afree of charge or deeply discounted basis, cost Tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated using represents the cost of manufacture transferred from inventory less tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
the value of any revenue received or receivable.
Amortisation is Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary charged over the periods expected to benefit from receiving the status differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their of principal supplier, through the sale of replacement parts, typically corresponding book values as recorded in the Groups financial up to 15years.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of foreign Other intangible assets subsidiaries, except where the Group can control the remittance and it a Intangible assets acquired as part of abusiness combination is probable that the earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable For acquisitions, the Group recognises intangible assets separately future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is from goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible or other legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, which is tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Intangible assets are subsequently held Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
other comprehensive income or directly in equity depending on where Where intangible assets have finite lives, their cost is amortised on the item to which they relate has been recognised.
astraight-line basis over those lives.
The nature of intangible assets recognised and their estimated useful lives are as follows: Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Customer relationships.............................. Up to 25 years Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever events Technology.................................................. Up to 25 years or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be Trade names and trademarks.................... U p to 2 5 y e a r s recoverable.
To the extent the carrying value exceeds the recoverable Order backlogs............................................ Over period of backlog amount, the difference is recorded as an expense in the income typically up to 3 years statement.
The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of abusiness higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest level the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are Group see note 10. largely independent of cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
At each balance sheet date, previously recorded impairment b Other purchased intangible assets losses, other than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if no Purchased licences, trademarks, patents and software are carried longer required reversed with acorresponding credit to the at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on astraight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life, typically over periods up to 10 years.
Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Property, plant and equipment Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated production overheads, based on normal operating capacity, and is depreciation and impairment losses, except for land which is determined using the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable recorded at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Depreciation is calculated on astraight-line basis over the estimated When asubsidiary is acquired, finished goods are recorded at fair useful lives of the assets as follows: value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal Freehold buildings...................................... Up to 50 years and areasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in Leasehold property..................................... O ver per iod of lease progress is also recorded at fair value at acquisition, which is typically Plant and machinery................................... 3 to 10 years estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and Furnaces...................................................... Up to 20 years areasonable profit allowance for work not yet completed.
When Fixtures and fittings.................................... 3 to 10 years inventory is subsequently disposed post acquisition, the fair value is Motor vehicles.............................................. 4 to 5 years charged to the income statement.
The difference between the fair value of the inventory disposed and its actual cost of manufacture is Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to ifappropriate.
monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group When property, plant and equipment is disposed, the difference seenote 10. between sale proceeds, net of related costs, and the carrying value Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items ofthe asset is recognised in the income statement.
whereappropriate and for unrealised profits on items of inter-group manufacture.
100 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provision is made for environmental liabilities, onerous contracts, Trade receivables product warranty claims and other liabilities when the Group has Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and apresent obligation as aresult of past events, it is more likely than subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
notthat an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the An impairment is recognised in the income statement, when there is obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are objective evidence the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due discounted to present value where the impact is significant, using according to the original terms of the receivables.
The discount rate used is based on current market recorded is the difference between the carrying value of the receivable assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks and its estimated future cash flows discounted where appropriate.
specific to the obligation which have not been reflected in the undiscounted provision.
The impact of the unwinding of discounting Cash and cash equivalents is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held at Retirement benefit schemes call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current liabilities, within bank and other borrowings, except where the Group participates For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of providing in offset arrangements with certain banks whereby cash and overdraft other post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare, are charged to amounts are offset against each other.
the income statement in accordance with the advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Trade payables Past service credits and costs are recognised immediately in the Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently income statement.
Trade payables are not interest bearing.
Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, the difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and the Leases present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations measured Leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards atthe balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit capitalised at commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is ofthe leased asset and present value of the minimum lease payments.
determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the charges so as to achieve aconstant rate on the finance balance currency in which the benefits will be paid and with terms to maturity outstanding.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance comparable with the terms of the related defined benefit obligations.
charges, are included in liabilities.
Assets acquired under finance Where the Group has astatutory or contractual minimum funding leases are depreciated on astraight-line basis over the shorter of requirement to make contributions to ascheme in respect of past theuseful life of the asset or the lease term.
service and any such contributions are not available to the Group once paid either as areduction in future contributions or as arefund during Leases in which asignificant portion of the risks and rewards of the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled, to ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating which the Group has an unconditional right, an additional liability leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives forsuch amounts is recognised.
received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on astraight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they arise in other comprehensive income.
Dividends For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are approved income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no further by the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities when they obligations once the contributions have been paid.
are approved by the shareholders.
Share-based compensation Borrowings The Group operates anumber of share-based compensation schemes, Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being proceeds which are principally equity-settled.
received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value of an award is measured at Borrowings are generally subsequently measured at amortised cost the date of grant and reflects any market-based vesting conditions.
with any transaction costs amortised to the income statement over the Non market-based vesting conditions are excluded from the fair value period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
At the date of grant, the Group estimates the number of borrowings however are designated as fair value through profit and awards expected to vest as aresult of non market-based vesting loss at inception, if the Group has interest rate derivatives in place conditions and the fair value of this estimated number of awards is which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into recognised as an expense in the income statement on astraight-line floating rate borrowings.
Such borrowings are measured at fair value basis over the period for which services are received.
At each balance at each balance sheet date with any movement in fair value recorded in sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of awards the income statement within net operating costs.
Movements in fair expected to vest as aresult of non market-based vesting conditions value are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the and adjusts the amount recognised cumulatively in the income Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the statement to reflect the revised estimate.
When awards are exercised Group see note 10. and the Company issues new shares, the proceeds received, net of any Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has nominal value and share premium.
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12months after the balance sheet date.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 101 Net investment hedges 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Hedges of net investments of foreign subsidiaries are accounted for in asimilar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in fair value Derivative financial instruments and hedging of the effective portion of any hedge are recognised in other The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional risk.
Derivative portion are recognised immediately in the income statement financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the within net operating costs.
Cumulative gains and losses previously datethe derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date using values the income statement if the foreign subsidiary to which they determined indirectly from quoted prices that are observable for relate is disposed.
Any such gains or losses are excluded from theasset or liability.
the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The method by which any gain or loss arising from remeasurement is recognised depends on whether the instrument is designated as Derivatives not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item hedged.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, TheGroup recognises an instrument as ahedging instrument by changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income documenting, at inception of the instrument, the relationship between statement within net operating costs.
The Group utilises alarge the instrument and the hedged item and the objectives and strategy for number of foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate against undertaking the hedging transaction.
To be designated as ahedging currency fluctuations.
The Group has determined the additional instrument, an instrument must also be assessed, at inception and costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements in order on an ongoing basis, to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: values or cash flows of hedged items.
Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
Additionally, in 2015 the Group has entered across currency derivative and atreasury lock To the extent the maturity of the financial instrument is more derivative as described in note 30 which do not meet the criteria for than 12months from the balance sheet date, the fair value is hedge accounting.
Gains and losses arising from measuring these reported asanon-current asset or non-current liability.
All other derivatives at fair value are excluded from the underlying profit derivative financial instruments are reported as current assets or measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying currentliabilities.
performance of the Group see note 10.
Fair value hedges Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are Share capital designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recognised in the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly income statement within net operating costs together with changes in attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds fair value of the hedged item.
Any difference between the movement in recorded in equity.
fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The Group an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
currently only applies fair value hedge accounting to the hedging Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental directly offixed interest rate risk on borrowings.
attributable costs, is recorded as adeduction from retained earnings.
Cash flow hedges Share buyback Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, The total consideration payable for shares purchased is deducted areinitially recognised in other comprehensive income.
The shares when purchased are generally infairvalue of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately cancelled, unless they are to be used to satisfy obligations under intheincome statement within net operating costs.
The nominal value of cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to aseparate capital redemption To the extent changes in fair value are recognised in other reserve.
Where the Group has entered into an irrevocable noncomprehensive income, they are recycled to the income statement discretionary contract to purchase for cancellation shares on its behalf inthe periods in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
during aclose period, the obligation to purchase shares is recognised The Group currently only applies cash flow hedge accounting to the in full at the inception of the contract, even when the obligation is hedging of floating interest rate risk on borrowings.
conditional on the share price.
The obligation is remeasured at each If the forecast transaction to which the cash flow hedge relates is balance sheet date with changes recognised in the income statement.
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously Any gain or loss arising from the remeasurement of the obligation recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board statement immediately.
If the hedging instrument is sold, expires or to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative seenote 10. gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income istransferred to the income statement when the forecast transaction isrecognised in the income statement.
102 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Adoption of new and revised accounting standards During the year, no new accounting standards became effective which had asignificant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Recent accounting developments A number of new standards and amendments and revisions to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods.
They have not been adopted early in these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have asignificant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they are adopted except as disclosed below: IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
The main change is expected to relate to the way in which movements in the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings, attributable to changes in the Groups own credit risk, are accounted for.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 9 which becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard is subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount and timing of revenue arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The Group, along with the aerospace industry as awhole, is continuing to assess the full impact of IFRS 15.
Areas which are currently under review by the Group, and where achange to current practice may be required, are the recognition as an intangible asset of programme participation costs, the method of accounting for revenue on power by the hour and cost per brake landing contracts and contract revenue recognition.
The standard becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and is subject to endorsement by the European Union.
The main change is expected to relate to the recognition on the Groups balance sheet of assets and liabilities relating to leases which are currently being accounted for as operating leases.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 16 which becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
This standard is subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to anumber of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by acentralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities see also pages 38 to 39 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposure arises with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposure based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge up to five years ahead.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 30.
The Group does not currently hedge exposure arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to partially hedge its net investments inforeign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk, whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to generallymaintain at least 25% of its net debt at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through interest rate derivatives which havethe economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings, floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings andin 2015 through atreasury lock which secures the rates of fixed interest payable on specified amounts of future fixed rate financing.
Detailsofhedges inplace are provided in note 30. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across alarge number of customers across the world.
Inaddition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial instruments which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 103 3.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolt-on acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2015 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 391.8 0.9 1.4 1.9 396.0 Bank and other borrowings 0.1 543.2 545.6 84.9 1,173.8 Interest payments on borrowings 21.5 20.1 39.5 6.5 87.6 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 1.1 1.0 3.2 12.1 17.4 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 8.4 8.2 17.6 4.0 38.2 Outflows 0.5 0.4 0.2 1.1 Total 406.6 557.4 572.3 101.4 1,637.7 2014 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 350.1 1.5 2.7 1.7 356.0 Bank and other borrowings 49.5 0.1 343.9 256.8 650.3 Interest payments on borrowings 20.5 19.0 45.2 17.3 102.0 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 1.1 1.0 3.0 12.4 17.5 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 9.1 9.0 22.8 9.8 50.7 Outflows 0.8 0.8 1.2 2.8 Total 412.9 13.4 373.2 278.4 1,077.9 Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.3 million 2014: 8.4 million see note 25.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at year end.
Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposure in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.
2015 2014 Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD GBP exchange rate - 10% 32.8 101.5 28.3 44.1 US yield curve - 1% 21.7 5.0 4.6 3.3 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 106.9 million 2014: 53.2 million in respect of US dollar net debt, offset by 5.4 million 2014: 9.1 million in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar debt is designated as anet investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
The impact of a1% movement in the US yield curve includes the effect on the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts as well as other financial assets and liabilities.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net asset values.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long-term.
The Groups current post-tax average cost of capital is approximately 8% 2014: 8% and its capital structure at 31 December is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Net debt see note 40 1,053.1 575.5 Total equity 2,178.5 2,140.8 Debt equity % 48.3% 26.9% 104 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued The Board believes that in maintaining an efficient balance sheet, anet debt EBITDA ratio of between 1.5x and 2.5x is appropriate, whilst retaining the flexibility to move outside the range if appropriate.
Further details on the share buyback programme announced as part of the Groups strategy for delivering net debt EBITDA in this range can be found on page 38 of the Chief Financial Officers review, which also includes details on how the Group has complied with the two principal financial covenant requirements contained in its committed credit facilities for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these financial statements are described below.
Further consideration of these critical estimates and judgements can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 57.
Goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows of the CGUs.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired in abusiness combination On the acquisition of abusiness, it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, provided they meet the criteria to be recognised.
The fair values of these assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins, cash flows and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
The Group takes advice from third parties in determining fair values and the estimated useful lives of intangible assets arising on significant acquisitions.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment testing at least annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed atleast annually, and revised if appropriate see note 20 for further details.
Development costs The majority of capitalised development costs relate to technology developed for aerospace programmes.
In such cases, costs are typically not capitalised until acontract to develop the technology is awarded by acustomer as, prior to this date, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate the point at which research activities conclude and development activities commence.
Absent acontract, the Group also does not believe there is generally sufficient certainty over the future economic benefits that will be generated from the technology, to allow capitalisation of those costs.
Post contract award, the Group will capitalise development costs provided it retains the intellectual property in the technology throughout the life of the aircraft or engine and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
In making ajudgement as to whether economic benefits will arise, the Group will make estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group hasasole-source position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costsofmanufacture and costs to complete the development activity.
Capitalised development costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate.
At 31 December 2015, the programme with the largest capitalised development balance has anet book value of 65.5 million.
Fleet volumes would need to reduce by approximately 60% from management estimates, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, before any impairment would need to be recognised.
Programme participation costs Approximately 85% of capitalised programme participation costs relate to free of charge or deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC, with the balance relating to cash payments.
All amounts relate to aerospace programmes.
FOC costs are typically incurred just prior to individual aircraft entering service and only where the Group is satisfied the incremental aftermarket revenues that will be generated over the life of the part are sufficient, will amounts be capitalised.
In making this judgement, the Group makes estimates of aircraft utilisation rates and fleet lives and operator service routines.
The capitalisation of cash payments is subject to similar judgements to those described for development costsabove.
Capitalised programme participation costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
At 31 December 2015, the programme with the largest capitalised programme participation balance has anet book value of 29.9 million.
No reasonably foreseeable change in assumptions would cause an impairment to be recognised.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 105 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Environmental matters The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of certain sites for which it has been identified as apotentially responsible party under US law.
Advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the determination of the timing and estimation of the costs the Group may incur in respect of such claims and appropriate provisions are made.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of historical environmental events on the Group.
To the extent estimates in respect of claims changeas more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions and, if the costs are determined to becovered by insurance, to the amounts recoverable from insurers.
However, actual losses incurred could differ from the original estimates seenote 31 for further details.
Onerous contracts The Group makes provision for any expected losses arising from onerous contracts which require estimates to be made of future contract revenues, margins, potential claims from third parties and cash flows.
These estimates are dependent on anumber of factors including anticipated sales volumes, future pricing, production costs and the outcome of negotiations with third parties.
To the extent these estimates change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions.
However, actual losses incurred could differ from the original estimates see note 31 for further details.
Legal, regulatory and other similar matters The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses.
Adetermination of any provisions required andany impairment of related receivables for these matters is based on acareful analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on anumber of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided innote 33.
Contract accounting revenue In determining amounts to be recognised as revenue under long-term contracts, the Group makes an assessment of the stage of completion of each contract and its expected profit at completion based on an estimate of total contract costs.
Contract cost estimates are based on an internal evaluation taking into account the specific nature of the contract, including its level of technical risk, together with the historical accuracy of previous contract estimates.
Estimates are reviewed and updated regularly throughout the life of the contract, which typically will span more than one accounting period.
The total amount of revenue recognised under long-term contracts in the year is disclosed in note 5.
Income taxes In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is necessary to consider transactions in asmall number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
If the actual outcome of events differed by 10% from the estimates made at 31 December 2015, the impact on the tax charge would be approximately 4.0 million.
Judgements also need to be made as to the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset against one another see note 32 for further details.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2015 2014 m m Sale of goods 1,470.4 1,351.7 Contract accounting revenue 66.7 98.3 Revenue from services 78.9 75.0 Revenue from funded research and development 31.2 28.7 Total 1,647.2 1,553.7 106 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group manages its businesses under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Details of the Groups divisions can be found on pages 13 to 17 of the Strategic report.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Meggitt Avionics business was transferred from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Sensing Systems.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this new divisional structure.
Year ended 31 December 2015 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Adetailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 353.3 398.8 178.0 480.8 244.9 1,655.8 Inter-segment revenue 0.2 0.9 0.6 6.0 0.9 8.6 Revenue from external customers 353.1 397.9 177.4 474.8 244.0 1,647.2 Underlying operating profit see note 10 131.7 97.0 15.4 72.3 9.1 325.5 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 88.9 Operating profit see note 10 236.6 Finance income see note 12 2.7 Finance costs see note 13 29.1 Net finance costs 26.4 Profit before tax 210.2 Tax see note 14 28.1 Profit for the year 182.1 Exceptional operating items see note 11 0.9 1.2 0.8 4.9 2.6 10.4 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 77.7 16.0 6.9 15.1 5.3 121.0 Impairment loss see note 19 6.4 6.4 Depreciation see note 21 7.3 6.4 4.1 10.1 5.6 33.5 Central costs are allocated using avariety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 49.1 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
All of the total depreciation in the year has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 109.0 million.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs net of customer funding see note 19 37.5 7.4 1.6 25.5 8.5 80.5 Programme participation costs see note 19 37.4 4.8 0.8 43.0 Other purchased intangible assets 2.0 1.2 0.4 1.2 0.9 5.7 Property, plant and equipment 8.5 8.0 6.9 11.9 4.2 39.5 Total 85.4 21.4 8.9 39.4 13.6 168.7 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 107 6.
Segmental analysis continued As at 31 December 2015 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 666.6 Meggitt Control Systems 303.7 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 187.5 Meggitt Sensing Systems 387.7 Meggitt Equipment Group 145.9 Total segmental trading assets 1,691.4 Centrally managed trading assets 179.8 Goodwill see note 18 1,866.0 Other intangible assets 612.0 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 25.5 Deferred tax assets see note 32 0.3 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 8.4 Current tax recoverable 5.5 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 145.4 Total assets 4,534.3 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Year ended 31 December 2014 Restated The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 327.1 349.7 163.2 456.5 265.4 1,561.9 Inter-segment revenue 0.1 1.0 0.9 5.5 0.7 8.2 Revenue from external customers 327.0 348.7 162.3 451.0 264.7 1,553.7 Underlying operating profit see note 10 127.5 91.8 20.2 75.7 30.8 346.0 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 109.8 Operating profit see note 10 236.2 Finance income see note 12 1.2 Finance costs see note 13 28.5 Net finance costs 27.3 Profit before tax 208.9 Tax see note 14 31.9 Profit for the year 177.0 Exceptional operating items see note 11 0.5 0.2 0.3 7.0 1.0 9.0 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 70.9 12.2 6.4 16.2 6.9 112.6 Impairment loss see note 19 4.0 4.0 8.0 Depreciation see note 21 6.7 6.1 3.3 9.9 5.2 31.2 Central costs are allocated using avariety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 44.5 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Of the total depreciation in the year, 31.1 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.2% of revenue 96.3 million.
108 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs see note 19 30.1 16.5 4.1 23.8 3.2 77.7 Programme participation costs see note 19 40.4 5.6 46.0 Other purchased intangible assets 0.3 1.3 0.5 1.2 0.9 4.2 Property, plant and equipment 6.1 4.5 5.9 9.9 6.9 33.3 Total 76.9 27.9 10.5 34.9 11.0 161.2 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
As at 31 December 2014 Restated Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 568.3 Meggitt Control Systems 295.6 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 94.0 Meggitt Sensing Systems 365.8 Meggitt Equipment Group 160.0 Total segmental trading assets 1,483.7 Centrally managed trading assets 181.4 Goodwill see note 18 1,534.7 Other intangible assets 609.3 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 29.6 Deferred tax assets see note 32 0.9 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 1.1 Current tax recoverable 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 105.5 Total assets 3,949.5 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2015 2014 m m Revenue UK 153.9 152.4 Rest of Europe 357.6 338.1 United States of America 854.9 771.1 Rest of World 280.8 292.1 Total 1,647.2 1,553.7 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
2015 2014 Restated see note 43 m m Non-current assets UK 677.7 602.0 Rest of Europe 182.2 203.6 United States of America 2,650.2 2,240.9 Rest of World 11.3 9.5 Total 3,521.4 3,056.0 Segmental non-current assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude trade and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 109 7.
Auditors remuneration Payable to  LLP and its associates: 2015 2014 m m For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 0.8 0.7 For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the prior year 0.1 For the audit of the accounts of any subsidiary of the Company in respect of the current year 0.6 0.7 Total 1.5 1.4 Non-audit fees payable to  LLP were Nil million 2014: Nil million.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables used 492.5 423.2 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 34.0 13.4 Employee costs see note 9 590.6 541.8 Research and development costs 73.9 70.6 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 7.9 8.8 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 28.9 24.9 Amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 12.3 10.8 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 71.9 68.1 Impairment loss on capitalised development costs see note 19 6.4 8.0 Depreciation see note 21 33.5 31.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Exceptional operating items see note 11 10.4 9.0 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses see note 10 0.2 3.5 Financial instruments see note 10 4.8 29.2 Net foreign exchange gain loss 2.6 0.6 Operating lease rentals 14.9 15.3 Other operating income 1.9 3.1 Total research and development expenditure in the year was 158.7 million 2014: 148.3 million of which 26.8 million 2014: 28.9 million was charged to cost of sales, 47.1 million 2014: 41.7 million was charged to net operating costs and 84.8 million 2014: 77.7 million wascapitalised as development costs see note 19.
Employee information 2015 2014 m m Employee costs including executive directors: Wages and salaries 464.5 434.7 Social security costs 82.6 78.8 Retirement benefit costs see note 33 39.4 26.6 Share-based payment expense see note 35 4.1 1.7 Total 590.6 541.8 Details of directors remuneration is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 80 which forms part of these financial statements.
2015 2014 Restated Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors: Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,300 1,228 Meggitt Control Systems 1,835 1,811 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 1,818 1,876 Meggitt Sensing Systems 3,365 3,367 Meggitt Equipment Group 1,798 1,746 Corporate including shared services 735 657 Total 10,851 10,685 Prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect the change to the divisional structure described in note 6.
110 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
It excludes certain items as described below: 2015 2014 Note m m Operating profit 236.6 236.2 Exceptional operating items see note 11 10.4 9.0 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses a 0.2 3.5 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations b 71.9 68.1 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations c 1.6 Financial instruments d 4.8 29.2 Adjustments to operating profit 88.9 109.8 Underlying operating profit 325.5 346.0 Profit before tax 210.2 208.9 Adjustments to operating profit per above 88.9 109.8 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 11.2 10.0 Adjustments to profit before tax 100.1 119.8 Underlying profit before tax 310.3 328.7 Profit for the year 182.1 177.0 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 100.1 119.8 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 33.9 36.6 Adjustments to profit for the year 66.2 83.2 Underlying profit for the year 248.3 260.2 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 4.0 million 2014: 5.5 million relating to exceptional operating items and 1.6 million 2014: Nil million relating to the disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 83.3million 2014: 104.3 million included within net operating costs.
In 2015, the Group has decided to separately present amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses.
These include gains or losses made on the disposal or closure of abusiness, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or receivable in respect of adisposed business and costs directly attributable to the acquisition of abusiness.
Such amounts were previously recorded as exceptional operating items.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this change.
2015 2014 m m Costs related to the acquisition of businesses 3.9 0.6 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable relating to previously disposed businesses 2.5 Gain loss on closure of businesses 1.2 2.9 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 0.2 3.5 b.
The Group excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2015 2014 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 84.2 78.9 Less amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 12.3 10.8 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 71.9 68.1 c. IFRS 3 requires finished goods acquired in abusiness combination to be recorded at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and areasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress acquired in abusiness combination is recorded at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and areasonable profit allowance for work still to be carried out.
The fair value of acquired inventory is thus significantly higher than the same items built post acquisition, the value of which includes no profit element.
The difference between the fair value of the inventory consumed and its cost is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 111 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit continued d. Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recorded if hedge accounting had been applied.
Where interest rate derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in the fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
Where interest rate derivatives do qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference between the movement in the fair value of derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
Where cross currency derivatives and treasury lock derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in the fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
Gains or losses arising from the remeasurement of the fair value of close period share buyback commitments are excluded from underlying profit.
2015 2014 m m Movement in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 16.1 31.1 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 0.1 1.9 Movement in the fair value of interest rate derivatives 2.2 4.2 Movement in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings 1.1 4.2 Movement in the fair value of cross currency derivative 4.4 Movement in the fair value of treasury lock derivative 3.7 Remeasurement of share buyback close period commitment 4.2 Financial instruments loss 4.8 29.2 11.
Exceptional operating items Income statement Cash expenditure 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note m m m m Site consolidations a 0.9 7.5 0.9 7.5 Business restructuring costs b 9.2 4.8 Integration of acquired businesses 0.3 1.5 0.1 4.4 Raw material supply issue 4.9 4.7 Exceptional operating items 10.4 9.0 10.7 16.6 a. T his relates to the movement of production to the Groups low cost manufacturing locations and, in 2014, to the consolidation of the Groups twoNorth American sensor businesses onto asingle new site in California, USA.
b. T his principally relates to costs incurred as part of aGroup-wide initiative to structurally reduce its cost base announced on 28 October 2015.
Afurther cost of approximately 8.0 million is expected to be incurred in 2016.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items was 3.2 million 2014: 4.1 million.
Finance income 2015 2014 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of interest on other receivables see note 31 2.5 0.9 Other finance income 0.1 0.2 Finance income 2.7 1.2 112 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest on bank borrowings 4.1 2.7 Interest on senior notes 11.7 12.7 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.0 0.9 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 31 3.2 1.1 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 11.2 10.0 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.8 3.1 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see note 19 2.9 2.0 Finance costs 29.1 28.5 An additional charge of 1.8 million was recorded in 2014, following the early refinancing of the Groups committed syndicated bank facilities.
Tax 2015 2014 m m Current tax current year 21.4 20.4 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 2.9 0.2 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.3 17.2 Deferred tax effects of changes in tax rates 1.0 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.3 5.9 Total taxation 28.1 31.9 The Finance No 2 Act 2015, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020.
As these changes were substantively enacted during 2015, they are reflected in the tax charge for the year.
The impact of this change on net deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2015, profit for the year underlying and statutory and comprehensive income for the year was not significant.
Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation of the tax charge based on the UK standard rate of tax to the actual tax charge is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax at UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.50% 42.6 44.9 Effects of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 11.4 12.5 Changes in statutory tax rates 1.0 Reversal of provisions against historical tax issues 11.4 Tax credits and incentives 4.1 3.2 Other permanent differences 10.8 16.0 Temporary differences 0.6 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 2.9 0.2 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.3 5.9 Total taxation 28.1 31.9 The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that aone percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2015 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 2.1 million.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2015 2014 Before Tax credit After Before Tax credit After tax charge tax tax charge tax m m m m m m Current tax currency translation differences 80.3 2.4 82.7 77.0 0.3 76.7 Deferred tax currency translation differences 2.4 0.4 2.0 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 0.7 0.1 0.6 0.8 0.1 0.7 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 29.4 9.5 19.9 97.7 24.2 73.5 Other comprehensive income 111.4 7.4 104.0 21.1 24.0 2.9 Current tax 2.4 0.3 Deferred tax 9.8 24.3 Total 7.4 24.0 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 113 14.
Tax continued Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2015 2014 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payment expense 0.5 1.2 Deferred tax charge relating to share-based payment expense 2.5 1.8 Total 2.0 0.6 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares used excludes treasury shares and any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 36.
The weighted average number of treasury shares excluded was 0.3 million shares 2014: Nil million and the weighted average number of own shares excluded was 0.7 million shares 2014:0.1 million.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that all potentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 182.1 785.4 23.2 177.0 804.1 22.0 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 10.9 0.3 11.0 0.3 Diluted EPS 182.1 796.3 22.9 177.0 815.1 21.7 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares as is used in the calculation of basic EPS.
Itis reconciled to basic EPS below: 2015 2014 Pence Pence Basic EPS 23.2 22.0 Adjust for effects of: Exceptional operating items 0.9 0.8 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 0.2 0.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 5.8 5.5 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations 0.1 Financial instruments 0.4 2.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.0 0.9 Underlying basic EPS 31.6 32.4 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year was 31.2 pence 2014: 31.9 pence.
Dividends 2015 2014 m m In respect of earlier years 70.2 In respect of 2014: Interim of 4.25p per share 34.2 Final of 9.50p per share 75.6 In respect of 2015: Interim of 4.60p per share 35.5 Dividends paid 111.1 104.4 Less paid as scrip dividend see note 41 53.0 Dividends paid in cash 111.1 51.4 A final dividend in respect of 2015 of 9.80p per share 2014: 9.50p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 76.0 million 2014:76.2million is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2016.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statements as it is has not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
114 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined for 2015 as members of the Board and the Group Executive Committee, is set out below.
Prior year comparatives have not been restated to reflect changes to the definition of key management personnel during the current year: 2015 2014 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 9.0 7.3 Retirement benefit expense 0.3 0.3 Share-based payment expense 1.3 0.6 Total 10.6 8.2 Interests of key management personnel, including executive directors, in share schemes operated by the Group at the balance sheet date are set out below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Average Number Average Number exercise outstanding exercise outstanding price price Pence m Pence m Share options N A - 393.00 0.1 Share appreciation rights equity-settled 349.19 3.2 359.71 5.1 Equity participation plan shares 1.6 2.5 Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 3.0 1.5 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 80 which forms part of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2015 2014 Restated see note 43 m m Cost at 1 January 1,534.7 1,457.1 Exchange rate adjustments 70.5 64.1 Businesses acquired see notes 42 and 43 260.8 13.5 Cost at 31 December 1,866.0 1,534.7 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is any indication of impairment.
No impairment charge was required in the year 2014: Nil million and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil million 2014: Nil million.
The total amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions in the year of the advanced composites businesses of Cobham plc Advanced Composites and the composites division of EDAC EDAC that are expected to be deductible for tax purposes will be assessed during 2016.
Thetotal amount of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Precision Engine Controls Corporation in 2014 thatis deductible for tax purposes is Nil million.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs which principally comprise its individualbusiness operations.
Goodwill is initially allocated, in the year abusiness is acquired, to CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
Subsequent adjustments are made to this allocation to the extent operations to which goodwill relates are transferred between CGUs.
An analysis of goodwill by principal CGU is shown below: 2015 2014 Restated see note 43 m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 734.0 699.9 Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. 198.8 188.0 EDAC 159.7 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. 145.7 137.7 Advanced Composites 103.6 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 83.9 81.9 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. 77.1 72.8 Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. 70.6 66.8 Other 292.6 287.6 Total 1,866.0 1,534.7 During 2014, the power businesses were moved from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Sensing Systems.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the power businesses currently continue to be considered as individual CGUs, and are excluded from the MSS CGU shown above.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 115 18.
Goodwill continued For each CGU, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
Such calculations were not performed for Advanced Composites or EDAC due to the proximity of their acquisition to the balance sheet date.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in December 2015.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using apre-tax discount rate appropriate for the relevant CGU.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are shown below: Sales volumes, selling prices and cost increases over the five years covered by managements detailed plans.
Sales volumes are based on industry forecasts and management estimates for the businesses in which each CGU operates including forecasts for OEM deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets, air traffic growth and military spending by the US DoD and other major governments.
Selling prices and cost increases are based on past experience and management expectations of future changes in the market.
The extent to which these assumptions affect each principal CGU with asignificant level of goodwill are described below.
MABS, Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. and MSS are broadly spread across both civil aerospace and military platforms with Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. and MSS also operating in the energy sector.
MABS is aleading supplier of wheels, brakes and brake control systems, particularly for regional aircraft, business jets and military aircraft.
Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. designs and manufactures fluid control devices and systems for most aircraft types and has ahigher content on large jets.
Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. designs and manufactures fire protection and control systems for large, regional, business and military aircraft.
MSS is aleading provider of high-performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high-value rotating machinery and other assets and, within the aerospace sector, has ahigher content on large jets.
All four CGUs have significant OEM and aftermarket revenue derived from sole-source positions with the aftermarket, where platform lives can be up to thirty years for civil aircraft and longer for military, representing the greater proportion of revenue except for MSS which has ahigher OEM content.
Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. and Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. both operate mainly in military markets.
The principal customer of Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. is the US DoD to whom they are aleading supplier of flexible fuel tanks.
Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. supplies integrated live andvirtual training packages for armed forces and law enforcement agencies across the world.
In civil aerospace, growth in capacity terms, measured in available seat kilometres ASKs, is forecast to grow in line with the long-term trend rate of 5%, which together with the Groups growing fleet, price increases and the expected output of the formation of the customer services and support organisation, should facilitate revenue growth in excess of the overall market for civil spares over the medium term.
The Groups continuing confidence in air passenger travel growth is supported by the sustained high levels of order intake at Boeing and Airbus.
Large jet deliveries increased by 1% in 2015, and the Group expects good delivery growth over the next five years underpinned by continued strong recent order intake and abacklog at Boeing and Airbus which equates to over eight years of deliveries at current production rates.
Deliveries of regional aircraft increased by 10% in 2015, with modest growth anticipated over the next few years, driven principally by demand for 70-90 seat aircraft, on which the Group has astrong shipset content.
Total business jet deliveries increased by 6% in 2015.
Further growth is anticipated in this market over the next five years, driven by increasing globalisation of the customer base and the ongoing improvement in the US economy, partially offset by the impact of aweaker oil and gas sector.
Military markets look to be entering amore benign phase, with the expectation of areturn to growth in military budgets in anumber of regions.
The Group has key positions on abroad range of military applications, including future growth platforms and is likely to benefit from increased expenditure on the retrofit and reset of repatriated military equipment.
The Group therefore continues to anticipate average compound organic military percentage growth in low single digits in the medium term.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans.
Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU operates, external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors, the extent to which aCGU has sole-source position on platforms where it is able to share in acontinuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues, the maturity of the platforms supplied by the CGU and the technological content of the CGUs products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, aconservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the principal countries in which the CGU operates UK: 2.3% 2014: 2.3%, US: 2.5% 2014:2.4%, the latter has been used.
D iscount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC was used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC was then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU.
The discount rates used for Other CGUs ranged between 9.2% to 11.1% 2014: 8.3% to11.0%.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out for each CGU to determine the extent to which its assumptions would need to change for the calculated recoverable amounts from value in use, to fall below the carrying value of goodwill of the CGU.
Management has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in asignificant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements in respect of the principal CGUs described above.
The principal CGU with the least headroom in percentage terms is MABS followed by Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. then Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc.. To require an impairment in the Group financial statements, one of the following would be required: MABS Meggitt Meggitt Rockmart North Inc. Hollywood Inc.
Reduction in estimates of cash flows more than 19% 21% 25% Reduction of long-term growth rates more than 62% 66% 100% Increase in the discount rate applied to future cash flows more than 14% 16% 23% Headroom 356.3m 39.0m 100.8m 116 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill continued Other goodwill of 292.6 million 2014: 287.6 million relates to approximately 10 individual CGUs.
The CGU with the least headroom in percentage terms has agoodwill balance of 58.0 million and limited headroom of 4.6 million based on value in use calculations and using adiscount rate of 10.8%.
Apotential impairment would be required if there were more than a4% reduction in estimated cash flows, 10% reduction in long-term growth rates or 2% increase in the discount rate applied.
Restructuring of the way the business operates in 2016, which is not reflected in the five year plan, is expected to lead to further headroom being created, when impairment testing is carried out in future years.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2014 Cost 340.7 356.0 Accumulated amortisation 70.2 145.4 Net book amount 270.5 210.6 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 270.5 210.6 Exchange rate adjustments 9.5 10.7 Additions Internal development costs 77.7 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 43.3 Cash payments 2.7 Interest capitalised 2.0 Impairment loss 8.0 Amortisation 8.8 24.9 Net book amount 342.9 242.4 At 31 December 2014 Cost 431.2 419.2 Accumulated amortisation 88.3 176.8 Net book amount 342.9 242.4 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 342.9 242.4 Exchange rate adjustments 17.7 11.1 Additions Internal development costs 84.8 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 41.4 Cash payments 1.6 Funding from customers 4.3 Interest capitalised 2.9 Transfers to inventory 21.3 Impairment loss 6.4 Amortisation 7.9 28.9 Net book amount 408.4 267.6 At 31 December 2015 Cost 506.9 479.7 Accumulated amortisation 98.5 212.1 Net book amount 408.4 267.6 Charged to net operating costs in respect of development costs and to cost of sales in respect of programme participation costs.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 1.5% 2014: 1.5%.
The net book amount of development costs includes 182.0 million 2014: 125.5 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 14.1 years 2014: 14.2 years.
The net book amount of programme participation costs includes 248.3 million 2014: 228.6 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 8.6 years 2014: 9.0 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 117 20.
Amortisation of these items is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
Principally relates to software costs.
The net book amount of customer relationships includes 310.0 million 2014: 332.1 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and56.5 million 2014: 60.3 million in respect of Meggitt Control Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of8.0years 2014: 9.0 years and 9.0 years 2014: 10.3 years respectively.
The net book amount of technology includes 61.8 million 2014:66.4million inrespect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 28.2 million 2014: 10.7 million in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites which have anestimated weighted average remaining life of 8.0 years 2014: 9.0 years and 5.8 years 2014: 6.8 years respectively.
118 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Total buildings equipment and vehicles m m m At 1 January 2014 Cost 185.9 385.0 570.9 Accumulated depreciation 57.3 268.1 325.4 Net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 Exchange rate adjustments 1.3 2.7 4.0 Businesses acquired 0.1 0.5 0.6 Additions 3.6 31.6 35.2 Disposals 1.8 1.2 3.0 Reclassification 2.4 2.4 Depreciation 6.3 24.9 31.2 Net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 At 31 December 2014 Cost 179.6 413.8 593.4 Accumulated depreciation 56.5 285.8 342.3 Net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 Exchange rate adjustments 2.8 4.4 7.2 Businesses acquired see note 42 7.3 14.6 21.9 Additions 4.8 39.5 44.3 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Depreciation 7.0 26.5 33.5 Net book amount 131.0 159.3 290.3 At 31 December 2015 Cost 197.8 467.4 665.2 Accumulated depreciation 66.8 308.1 374.9 Net book amount 131.0 159.3 290.3 The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 27 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets, which have acarrying amount of 4.4 million included within land and buildings 2014: 4.4 million and Nil million 2014: 0.1 million included within plant, equipment and vehicles.
Inventories 2015 2014 Restated see note 43 m m Contract costs incurred 37.1 9.3 Less progress billings 1.7 Net contract costs 35.4 9.3 Raw materials and bought-in components 141.2 121.1 Manufacturing work in progress 167.6 141.6 Finished goods and goods for resale 71.0 55.9 Total 415.2 327.9 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales was 956.3 million 2014: 897.6 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 2.8 million 2014: 6.4 million in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, and has been reduced by 3.8 million 2014: 3.0 million in respect of the reversal of write-downs made in previous years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 119 23.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 Restated see note 43 m m Trade receivables 265.9 232.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 25.7 55.1 Prepayments and accrued income 17.9 14.5 Other receivables 103.1 123.4 Total 412.6 425.2 Less non-current portion: Other receivables 58.9 93.4 Non-current portion 58.9 93.4 Current portion 353.7 331.8 Other receivables includes 80.1 million 2014: 102.8 million in respect of insurance receivables arising on environmental issues relating principally to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group see note 31 of which 23.4 million 2014:11.1million is shown as current.
Other receivables are discounted where the impact is significant.
Trade receivables are stated after aprovision for impairment of 4.9 million 2014: 3.8 million.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The provision for impairment against trade receivables is based on aspecific risk assessment takinginto account past default experience and is analysed as follows: 2014 2015 Restated m m At 1 January 3.8 4.1 Exchange rate adjustments 0.1 0.1 Businesses acquired as restated see note 43 0.1 Charge credit to income statement net operating costs 1.0 0.5 At 31 December 4.9 3.8 At 31 December 2015, trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts of 49.9 million 2014: 67.5 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to anumber of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these tradeand other receivables is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Up to 3 months overdue 44.0 41.5 Over 3 months overdue 5.9 26.0 Total 49.9 67.5 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2015 Restated m m Sterling 70.9 87.9 US dollar 303.8 295.8 Euro 29.8 28.6 Other 8.1 12.9 Total 412.6 425.2 120 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and on hand 123.3 95.4 Short-term bank deposits 22.1 10.1 Total 145.4 105.5 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
The credit quality of the financial institutions where the cash and cash equivalents is held are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Moodys rating: Aaa 0.8 0.3 Aa 64.4 25.5 A 36.0 77.4 Baa 44.2 2.3 Total 145.4 105.5 25.
Trade and other payables current 2015 2014 m m Payments received on account 29.2 31.5 Trade payables 165.1 127.3 Social security and other taxes 10.3 8.4 Accrued expenses 57.3 52.6 Share buyback - close period commitment 20.0 Other payables 140.2 118.7 Total 402.1 358.5 26.
Trade and other payables non-current 2015 2014 m m Deferred consideration relating to acquired businesses 3.2 3.0 Other payables 1.0 2.9 Total 4.2 5.9 27.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: In one year or less 1.1 1.1 0.1 0.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 4.2 4.0 0.2 0.2 In more than five years 12.1 12.4 5.2 5.1 Total 17.4 17.5 5.5 5.4 Less: future finance charges 11.9 12.1 Present value of lease obligations 5.5 5.4 Less non-current portion 5.4 5.3 Current portion 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases are US dollar denominated.
The weighted average period to maturity is 14.8 years 2014: 15.4 years and the weighted average interest rate is 18.4% 2014: 18.0%.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 121 28.
Bank and other borrowings 2015 2014 m m Current Bank loans 0.7 10.8 Other loans 3.3 48.1 Total current 4.0 58.9 Non-current Bank loans 763.2 212.6 Other loans 425.8 404.1 Total non-current 1,189.0 616.7 Total 1,193.0 675.6 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 4.0 58.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 1,097.2 344.4 In more than five years 91.8 272.3 Total 1,193.0 675.6 Analysis of bank and other borrowings: Drawn under committed facilities 1,172.8 644.9 Less unamortised debt issue costs 3.1 3.6 Fair value adjustment to fixed rate borrowings 18.4 19.5 Drawn under uncommitted facilities 1.1 11.6 Interest accruals 3.8 3.2 Total 1,193.0 675.6 Debt issue costs are amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings 2014: Nil million.
The Group has the following committed facilities: 2015 2014 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m Senior notes USD 70.0 million 44.9 44.9 Senior notes USD 600.0 million 407.1 407.1 384.8 384.8 Syndicated credit facility USD 900.0 million 358.6 252.0 610.6 215.2 362.0 577.2 Bilateral credit facilities USD 600.0 million 407.1 407.1 Total 1,172.8 252.0 1,424.8 644.9 362.0 1,006.9 The Group issued USD 70.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2003.
The notes carried an interest rate of 5.46% and were repaid in 2015.
The Group issued USD 600.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2010.
The notes are in four tranches as follows: USD 200.0 million carry an interest rate of 4.62% and are due for repayment in 2017, USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020, USD 150.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are also due for repayment in 2020 and USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
During 2014, the Group secured afive-year USD 900.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2020, following aone-year extension which was agreed during 2015.
The facility includes afurther one-year extension option at the end of the second year.
At 31 December 2015, the amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility were 358.6 million 2014: 215.2 million represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars of 312.4 million 2014: 142.5 million, in Euros of 46.2 million 2014: 50.4 million, in Swiss francs of Nil million 2014: 10.3 million and in Sterling of Nil million 2014: 12.0 million.
Borrowings under the facility are subject to interest at floating rates.
During 2015, the Group secured two new USD 300.0 million bilateral credit facilities which mature in 2017.
At 31 December 2015, the facilities were fully drawn and borrowings are all denominated in US dollars.
Borrowings under the facilities are subject to interest at floating rates.
122 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Bank and other borrowings continued The committed facilities available at each balance sheet date expire as follows: 2015 2014 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In one year or less 44.9 44.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 1,088.0 252.0 1,340.0 343.5 362.0 705.5 In more than five years 84.8 84.8 256.5 256.5 Total 1,172.8 252.0 1,424.8 644.9 362.0 1,006.9 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2015 2014 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 4.0 4.0 58.9 61.6 Non-current 1,189.0 1,196.9 616.7 625.7 Total 1,193.0 1,200.9 675.6 687.3 After taking account of financial derivatives that alter the interest basis of the financial liabilities entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure on gross bank and other borrowings is: As at 31 December 2015: Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 839.2 244.3 1,083.5 Swiss franc 65.3 65.3 Euro 46.2 0.3 0.8 47.3 Gross bank and other borrowings 885.4 309.9 0.8 1,196.1 3.4 2.5 Less unamortised debt issue costs 2.0 1.1 3.1 Bank and other borrowings 883.4 308.8 0.8 1,193.0 Fixed rate borrowings As at 31 December 2014: Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 317.6 277.4 595.0 Swiss franc 14.8 14.8 Euro 50.4 0.9 51.3 Sterling 18.1 18.1 Gross bank and other borrowings 400.9 277.4 0.9 679.2 3.7 3.3 Less unamortised debt issue costs 2.8 0.8 3.6 Bank and other borrowings 398.1 276.6 0.9 675.6 The weighted average interest rate reflects the relative impact of interest rates based on the principal amounts and the duration of borrowings.
The weighted average period to maturity for non-interest bearing borrowings is 3.8 years 2014: 4.4 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 123 29.
Financial instruments As at 31 December 2015: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 58.9 58.9 58.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 24.8 0.7 25.5 25.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 335.8 335.8 335.8 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 8.4 8.4 8.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 145.4 145.4 145.4 Financial assets 33.2 0.7 540.1 574.0 574.0 Current: Trade and other payables 391.8 391.8 391.8 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 12.7 12.7 12.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 4.0 4.0 4.0 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 4.2 4.2 4.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 13.7 13.7 13.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.4 5.4 5.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 290.8 898.2 1,189.0 1,196.9 Financial liabilities 317.2 1,303.7 1,620.9 1,628.8 Total 284.0 0.7 540.1 1,303.7 1,046.9 1,054.8 As at 31 December 2014: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 93.4 93.4 93.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 28.3 1.3 29.6 29.6 Current: Trade and other receivables 317.3 317.3 317.3 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 1.1 1.1 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 105.5 105.5 105.5 Financial assets 29.4 1.3 516.2 546.9 546.9 Current: Trade and other payables 350.1 350.1 350.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 9.6 9.6 9.6 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 58.9 58.9 61.6 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 5.9 5.9 5.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 2.9 2.9 2.9 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.3 5.3 5.3 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 276.9 339.8 616.7 625.7 Financial liabilities 289.4 760.1 1,049.5 1,061.2 Total 260.0 1.3 516.2 760.1 502.6 514.3 Excludes prepayments and accrued income of 17.9 million 2014: 14.5 million see note 23.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.3 million 2014: 8.4 million see note 25.
124 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, obligations under finance leases and the current element offloating rate bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within book value for credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual forward rates.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives and the treasury lock derivative, have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates.
The fair value of the cross currency derivative has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date, forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and the contractual interest and forward exchange rates.
The non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, asit has been determined using significant inputs which are amixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates and with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
The same methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the current element of fixed rate bank and other borrowings and the non-current element of bank and other borrowings which are held at amortised cost, but for which fair values are provided in the table above.
There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss Cumulative unrealised changes in the fair value of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fair value at 1 January 7.7 7.0 Gain loss recognised in net operating costs 1.1 0.7 Fair value at 31 December 6.6 7.7 The difference between the fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fair value 290.8 276.9 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 18.4 19.5 Contractual amount payable at maturity 272.4 257.4 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit and loss: At 1 January 276.9 256.8 Exchange rate adjustments 16.0 16.1 Gain loss recognised in net operating costs 2.1 4.0 At 31 December 290.8 276.9 The largest movement in credit spread seen in asix month period since inception of the borrowings is 70 basis points.
A70 basis point movementin the credit spread used as an input in determining the fair value at 31 December 2015, would impact profit before tax by approximately 7.6million.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 125 30.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 December 2015: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 108.5 0.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 271.4 24.8 Cross currency swap - not hedge accounted 61.0 4.5 Treasury lock - not hedge accounted 135.7 3.7 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 8.5 596.9 0.2 26.4 Total 585.1 596.9 33.9 26.4 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 108.5 0.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 271.4 24.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 3.2 391.6 13.7 Non-current portion 383.1 391.6 25.5 13.7 Current portion 202.0 205.3 8.4 12.7 As at 31 December 2014: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 102.6 1.3 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 256.5 27.0 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 134.3 284.3 2.4 12.5 Total 493.4 284.3 30.7 12.5 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 102.6 1.3 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 256.5 27.0 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 72.0 131.2 1.3 2.9 Non-current portion 431.1 131.2 29.6 2.9 Current portion 62.3 153.1 1.1 9.6 Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2015 is 379.9 million 2014: 359.1 million, of which 67.8 million will expire in 2017, 108.6 million will expire in 2018, 118.7 million will expire in 2020 and 84.8 million will expire in 2022.
Thecontracts are all denominated in US dollars.
Of the notional principal amount outstanding, 108.5 million 2014: 102.6 million has the economic effect of converting floating rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate US dollar borrowings and 271.4 million 2014: 256.5 million hasthe economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the floating rate to fixed rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts as fair value hedges.
Cross currency swap The cross currency swap has been used to synthetically convert US dollar denominated floating borrowings into Swiss franc denominated fixed borrowings to hedge against Swiss franc denominated assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The cross currency swap does not qualify to be hedgeaccounted.
Treasury lock The treasury lock has been used to secure current market interest rates for specified amounts of future fixed-rate funding.
The treasury lock does not qualify to be hedge accounted.
Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition andMeasurement are not merited.
2015 2015 2014 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar forward sales USD 13.0 2.3 3.8 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 0.
2 13.4 0.1 8.7 Total 0.2 26.4 2.4 12.5 126 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments continued Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Moodys rating: Aa 8.2 4.0 A 25.7 26.7 Total 33.9 30.7 31.
Provisions Provisions Environmental Environmental Onerous Warranty Other Total insurance contracts costs receivables a b c d a m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 133.0 22.3 13.0 7.3 175.6 102.8 Exchange rate adjustments 6.6 0.5 0.5 0.1 7.7 4.9 Businesses acquired see note 42 0.6 0.6 Additional provision in year 0.6 6.8 3.8 11.2 Unused amounts reversed 15.9 1.9 0.7 2.8 21.3 15.9 Charge credit to net finance costs see notes 13 and 12 3.2 3.2 2.5 Transfer to from trade and other payables 0.6 0.4 0.2 Utilised 15.9 5.2 5.8 2.9 29.8 14.2 At 31 December 2015 111.0 16.3 14.2 5.5 147.0 80.1 2015 2014 m m Current 36.0 45.1 Non-current 111.0 130.5 At 31 December 2015 147.0 175.6 Amounts in respect of onerous contracts and warranty costs have been recorded in cost of sales.
Amounts in respect of environmental and other provisions have been recorded in net operating costs.
Provision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation in anumber of businesses.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as apotentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these sites based on information currently available.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next fifteen years and are discounted, where appropriate, using an appropriate discount rate.
Areceivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties and for which movements in that receivable are shown in the table above see also note 23.
During the year, further information regarding the extent of remediation required was received, which resulted in the reversal of 15.9 million of provision previously held.
As the revision of cost estimates related to sites which are insured, there was acorresponding reduction in the insurance receivable and no net impact on net operating costs.
Provision has been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
During 2013, the Group was made aware of an issue relating to the supply from avendor of non-conforming raw material in one of our businesses.
Provision has been made for the estimated future costs associated with this matter, which include the provision of anumber of free of charge replacement parts to customers over aperiod of several years.
There are anumber of uncertainties regarding the ultimate amounts that will be payable, including the extent to which replacement parts will be required.
However, the directors believe, based on the information currently available, that the ultimate outcome will not be significantly different from that recognised.
Onerous trading contract provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using adiscount rate appropriate to each provision.
c. Provision has been made for product warranty claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the next three years.
The provisions are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
d. A number of asbestos-related claims have been made against subsidiary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is aprovision for certain claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
During 2013, an administrative settlement was reached with the US Government following its investigation of alleged violations of US export control laws by certain subsidiaries of the Group.
Under the terms of the 30-month consent agreement, Meggitt-USA, Inc. was assessed acivil penalty of USD 25 million, of which USD 22 million was suspended on condition the Government approved certain past or future remedial costs incurred or to be incurred by the Groups US subsidiaries.
Such approval was received during the year.
In addition, the Group was required to implement additional future compliance measures.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using adiscount rate appropriate to each provision.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 127 32.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Retirement Other Total Deferred tax assets benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2014 68.1 16.0 84.1 Exchange rate adjustments 2.7 0.3 3.0 Reclassifications 3.7 3.7 Businesses acquired as restated see note 43 0.2 0.2 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 7.3 2.1 5.2 Credit to other comprehensive income see note 14 24.2 0.2 24.4 Charge to equity see note 14 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2014 as restated 87.7 12.9 100.6 Exchange rate adjustments 2.7 0.7 3.4 Reclassifications 1.1 0.5 0.6 Businesses acquired see note 42 0.2 0.2 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 1.6 0.4 1.2 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 9.5 0.2 9.7 Charge to equity see note 14 2.5 2.5 At 31 December 2015 78.2 12.0 90.2 Accelerated Intangible Total Deferred tax liabilities tax assets depreciation m m m At 1 January 2014 19.3 275.0 294.3 Exchange rate adjustments 0.9 14.1 15.0 Reclassifications 0.1 0.9 0.8 Businesses acquired as restated see note 43 5.9 5.9 Charge to income statement see note 14 1.8 4.3 6.1 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2014 as restated 22.1 298.5 320.6 Exchange rate adjustments 1.2 15.1 16.3 Reclassifications 0.5 0.5 Businesses acquired see note 42 0.8 0.8 Charge to income statement see note 14 4.2 4.2 8.4 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 28.3 317.4 345.7 Acquired in business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is alegally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2015 2014 Restated m m Deferred tax assets 0.3 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities 255.8 220.9 Net balance at 31 December 255.5 220.0 Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2015 2014 m m To be recovered within one year 0.2 0.2 To be recovered after more than one year 0.1 0.7 Total 0.3 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities all fall due after more than one year.
The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 24.3 million 2014: 23.5 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to atax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
128 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates anumber of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has asignificant impact onthe financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates afunded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With two exceptions, these schemes are open to future accrual for existing members.
The schemes are amixture of funded and unfunded schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates afunded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of aguaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on amembers length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are also dependent on salary at retirement or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides afixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of adefined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
The UK scheme is aregistered scheme and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, including thepayment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
It is established under trust and the responsibility for its governance lies with the trustees whoalso agree funding arrangements with the Group.
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and are insured by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits.
They are established under, and governed by, the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
Meggitt is anamed fiduciary with the authority to manage the operation of the US schemes.
The Swiss scheme is atax qualified pension plan subject to the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans which constitutes alegal framework setting out the minimum requirements for occupational pension plans.
The responsibility for its governance lies with afoundation, which is similar in nature to aUK trustee board.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as obligations fall due.
The Group also operates anumber of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other post-retirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, andformer employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 23.8 21.7 Defined benefit pension schemes: Service cost 14.5 11.9 Past service cost 1.1 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 9.5 7.8 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 24.0 20.8 Healthcare schemes: Service cost 0.8 0.8 Past service cost credit 0.3 8.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.7 2.2 Total charge credit in respect of healthcare schemes 2.8 5.9 Total charge 50.6 36.6 In 2014, the Group made changes to the way in which medical benefits are provided.
These changes, following which the Group continues to provide comparable benefits, resulted in apast service credit being recognised of 8.4 million, which is included within the amounts shown inthe table.
Of the total charge, 39.4 million 2014: 26.6 million has been charged to operating profit see note 9, of which 22.2 million 2014: 19.5 million has been included in cost of sales and 17.2 million 2014: 7.1 million in net operating costs.
The remaining 11.2 million 2014: 10.0 million isincluded in finance costs see note 13.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 129 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the balance sheet 2015 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 637.1 396.1 45.4 1,078.6 Fair value of scheme assets 515.0 279.1 - 794.1 Retirement benefit obligations 122.1 117.0 45.4 284.5 2014 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 681.4 350.7 46.8 1,078.9 Fair value of scheme assets 501.4 259.7 761.1 Retirement benefit obligations 180.0 91.0 46.8 317.8 Of the total deficit of 284.5 million 2014: 317.8 million, 62.0 million 2014: 63.8 million is in respect of unfunded schemes.
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2015 2014 Liabilities Assets Total Liabilities Assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 1,078.9 761.1 317.8 926.5 688.4 238.1 Exchange rate adjustments 20.7 13.4 7.3 15.6 7.9 7.7 Service cost 15.3 15.3 12.7 12.7 Past service cost credit 0.3 0.3 7.8 7.8 Interest expense income see note 13 37.9 26.7 11.2 38.9 28.9 10.0 Contributions Group 39.7 39.7 42.0 42.0 Contributions members 2.9 2.9 3.2 3.2 Benefits paid 40.8 40.8 38.8 38.8 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Experience losses 11.4 11.4 Gain loss from change in demographic assumptions 6.3 6.3 10.8 10.8 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 41.7 41.7 117.8 117.8 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in finance income 7.2 7.2 30.9 30.9 Total remeasurement gain loss 36.6 7.2 29.4 128.6 30.9 97.7 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 1.7 1.7 1.4 1.4 At 31 December 1,078.6 794.1 284.5 1,078.9 761.1 317.8 P resent value of schemes liabilities.
F air value of schemes assets.
130 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2015 2014 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 3.85% 4.20% 4.20% 3.60% 3.85% 3.85% Inflation rate 3.10% N A N A 3.10% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.10% N A N A 2.10% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.00% N A N A 3.00% N A N A Salary increases 4.10% 4.66% N A 4.10% 4.74% N A Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the scheme, which include the results of an analysis of members used to support the 2015 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions are based on the RPH-2014 headcount weighted table, for schemes where benefits are not salary-linked, and the RP-2014 table for other schemes, with both tables projecting rates of mortality to fall using the Social Security Administrations projection scale Scale SSA.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 131 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 23.3-25.0 21.6-22.2 23.6-25.3 21.6-22.2 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 26.2-28.0 23.5-23.7 26.4-28.0 23.4-23.7 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.9-23.4 20.3-21.0 21.9-23.6 20.3-20.9 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 24.4-26.1 22.3-22.6 24.5-26.1 22.3-22.5 Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: T he impact of a10 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2015 to increase by approximately 17.8million.
T he impact of a10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2015 to increase byapproximately 11.7 million.
T he impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2015 toincrease by approximately 31.7 million.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on achange in asingle assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysisare consistent with the previous year.
Risks The Group is exposed to anumber of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant ofwhich are detailed below.
The Group has not changed the process used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year.
Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset types such as equities, property, hedge funds, commodities and derivatives where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the long-term nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to out-perform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have amaterial impact on the overall level of assets.
In 2014, part of the equity portfolio held by the UK and US schemes was disinvested.
The amounts disinvested totalled approximately 100.0 million.
The proceeds were used to purchase structured investments consisting of high quality government bonds together with equity derivatives.
The structured investments enable the schemes to benefit from equity-like returns, subject to certain caps, on the amounts invested, whilst providing an element of protection against falls in equity markets.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
For each UK and US funded scheme, there is aglide-path in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in long-term index linked securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
Inflation risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to the levels of salary inflation, inflation increases that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in both the UK and US schemes by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over aperiod of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
132 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds this estimate, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Group currently does not use derivatives, such as longevity swaps, to mitigate this risk.
Other information In the UK, the last triennial valuation was in 2012 following which the Group agreed with the trustees to increase deficit reduction payments, with the aim being to eliminate the deficit by 2024.
Under the agreement with the trustees, deficit payments in 2016 will be 21.9 million and will increase by approximately 5% per annum until 2024.
Although the present value of future deficit payments agreed as part of the 2012 actuarial valuation exceed the scheme deficit at 31 December 2014, such amounts would be recoverable by the Group under the scheme rules once the last member has died and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The 2015 triennial valuation is approaching completion and discussions with the trustees have commenced over arevised recovery plan to address the additional deficit of approximately 70.0 million arising since the 2012 valuation.
Assuming the additional deficit is funded on asimilar basis to the existing recovery plan, additional annual deficit payments of approximately 7.5 million would be required, commencing in 2016.
In the US, deficit reduction payments are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
Deficit payments in 2016 are expected to be Nil million and, absent any changes in legislation, will then increase over the following two years to 8.0million by 2018.
Thereafter, annual payments are expected to remain relatively stable for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present value of deficit payments due under legislation do not exceed the schemes deficits at 31 December 2015 and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The Swiss scheme has asurplus on afunding basis.
The estimated total Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2016 are 42.3 million, assuming the additional deficit under the 2015 UK valuation is funded on asimilar basis to the existing recovery plan.
The weighted average duration of the UK schemes defined benefit obligation is 19.3 years.
The weighted average duration of the overseas schemes defined benefit obligation is 11.0 years.
Share capital and share schemes Issued share capital Ordinary Nominal Net shares of value consideration 5p each Number m m m Allotted and fully paid: At 1 January 2014 797.1 39.9 Issued on exercise of executive share awards 0.4 0.1 Share buyback purchased 6.8 0.3 33.7 Scrip dividends 11.6 0.5 53.0 At 31 December 2014 802.3 40.1 Share buyback purchased 28.3 1.3 146.4 Share buyback transfer to treasury shares 1.5 At 31 December 2015 775.5 38.8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 133 34.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 3.0 years 2014: 3.4 years.
All the above share appreciation rights, which were granted for nil consideration, may in certain circumstances, be exercised earlier than the dates given.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 5.1 years 2014: 6.3 years.
Share-based payment The Group operates anumber of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of such schemes was 4.1 million 2014: 1.7 million see note 9.
The nature of each scheme which has asignificant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement is set out below.
Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 Equity-settled Under the Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, ifany that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: A n earnings per share EPS measure 33% of the award : A return on trading assets ROTA measure 33% of the award : and A strategic goals measure 33% of the award.
134 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment continued Each of the conditions is measured over athree year performance period.
An expense of 2.4 million 2014: 1.7 million was recorded in the year.
Awards are made as nil cost options.
An employee is generally entitled to apayment at the end of the vesting period, equivalent to dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period, on any shares that vest.
The fair value of the award made in 2015 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant, which was 559.10 pence 2014: 467.54 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 4.2 Awarded 3.9 4.2 Lapsed 0.1 At 31 December 8.0 4.2 At 31 December 2015, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Equity-settled Under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, an award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, if any that an executive ultimately receives, depends on them remaining in service for aspecified period of time.
There are no other significant performance conditions.
An expense of 1.1 million 2014: 0.1 million was recorded in the year.
The fair value of the awards made in 2015 were estimated at the market price of the share on the date of each grant.
The average price at the date of grant was 540.00 pence.
No significant grants were made in 2014.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 0.1 Awarded 0.5 Exercised 0.1 At 31 December 0.5 At 31 December 2015, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 Equity-settled Awards are no longer made under this scheme.
Share awards under the scheme were granted to certain senior executives at an exercise price equal to the market price of the shares on the day before the grant was made.
The awards are generally exercisable at the earliest three years after the grant date.
Awards can only be exercised if the Group meets an earnings per share performance condition.
The Group has no obligation, legal or constructive, to settle the awards in cash.
Awards under Part A of the scheme provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled, on payment of the exercise price, to the number of shares under award.
Awards under Part B of the scheme are in the form of equity-settled share appreciation rights SARs and provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled to receive equity equivalent to the gain in value between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Awards may be exercised at any point between the vesting date and ten years after thedate the award was made.
No charge 2014: 0.9 million credit was recorded in the year.
Movements in the number of outstanding awards and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Average Number of Average Number of exercise awards exercise awards price outstanding price outstanding Pence m Pence m At 1 January 373.89 15.7 360.49 21.1 Lapsed 406.36 5.0 371.43 2.0 Exercised 290.60 1.6 292.76 3.4 At 31 December 370.89 9.1 373.89 15.7 At 31 December 2015, of the total number of awards outstanding, 5.6 million are exercisable at an average exercise price of 273.19 pence 2014:7.1million at an average exercise price of 274.59 pence.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 135 36.
Own shares and treasury shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to acquire shares to be used to satisfy share options and awards under the employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 80.
At 31 December 2015, the trust held 1.9 million ordinary shares 2014: 0.3 million ordinary shares of which 1.7 million were unallocated 2014: 0.3 million, being retained by the trust for future use.
The balance were held for employees in avested share account to satisfy particular awards which had fully vested.
All shares, whether or not allocated, are held for the benefit of employees.
Theshares held at 31 December 2015 were purchased during the year at acost of 9.7 million 2014: 1.7 million.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2015 was 7.2 million 2014:1.8 million representing 0.25% of the issued share capital of the Company 2014: 0.04%.
During the Groups share buyback programme, 1.5 million of the shares purchased in 2015 were not cancelled but retained as treasury shares.
Ofthese, 1.1 million were used to satisfy share options and awards under the UK Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme.
At31 December 2015, 0.4 million shares remained in treasury with amarket value of 1.3 million, representing 0.05% of the issued share capitalof the Company.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2015 2014 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 0.6 0.9 Property, plant and equipment 8.2 11.0 Total 8.8 11.9 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various factories, warehouses and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
These leases have various lease periods, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations.
Additionally the Group leases various items of plant and machinery under both cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases.
Expenditure on operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred and is disclosed in note 8.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2015 2014 m m In one year or less 15.6 12.7 In more than one year but not more than five years 43.4 37.2 In more than five years 32.0 24.1 Total 91.0 74.0 Other financial commitments The Group enters into long-term arrangements with aircraft and original equipment manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents asignificant long-term financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of anumber of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over aperiod which can extend over 40years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual commitments to incur development costs and programme participation costs at 31 December 2015, which are expected to be recognised as intangible assets when incurred are as follows: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Development Programme Development Programme costs participation costs participation costs costs m m m m In one year or less 38.7 49.4 62.0 40.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 10.5 209.5 19.2 220.5 In more than five years 8.6 909.1 2.7 732.4 Total 57.8 1,168.0 83.9 993.0 38.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property leases, other leasing arrangements and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have amaterial adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
136 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Cash inflow from operations 2015 2014 m m Profit for the year 182.1 177.0 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 2.7 1.2 Finance costs see note 13 29.1 28.5 Tax see note 14 28.1 31.9 Depreciation see note 21 33.5 31.2 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 121.0 112.6 Impairment loss see note 19 6.4 8.0 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable 2.5 Gain loss on closure of businesses see note 10 1.2 2.9 Financial instruments see note 10 4.8 29.2 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 24.4 29.3 Share-based payment expense see note 35 4.1 1.7 Changes in working capital: Inventories 14.6 17.7 Trade and other receivables 55.8 9.8 Trade and other payables 27.3 10.1 Provisions 40.1 28.0 Cash inflow from operations 406.7 346.9 In respect of previously disposed businesses see note 10.
Movements in net debt 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 575.5 564.6 Free cash inflow 199.0 146.8 Businesses acquired see note 42 362.7 28.6 Business acquisition expenses 2.5 Businesses disposed 2.0 Business disposal expenses 0.5 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 111.1 51.4 Purchase of own shares 9.7 11.6 Issue of equity share capital 0.1 Share buyback - purchased see note 34 146.4 33.7 Net cash generated outflow inflow 431.4 21.1 Debt acquired with businesses see note 42 6.3 Exchange rate adjustments 39.6 24.7 Other non-cash movements 0.3 7.3 At 31 December 1,053.1 575.5 Analysed as: 2015 2014 m m Bank and other borrowings current see note 28 4.0 58.9 Bank and other borrowings non-current see note 28 1,189.0 616.7 Obligations under finance leases current see note 27 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases non-current see note 27 5.4 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 145.4 105.5 Total 1,053.1 575.5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 137 41.
Major non-cash transactions During 2014, the Company issued 11.6 million shares worth 53.0 million in respect of scrip dividends see notes 16 and 34.
In 2015, the scrip dividend plan was replaced by adividend reinvestment plan which provides an efficient reinvestment option for shareholders without the need fornew shares to be issued.
42. Business combinations On 25 November 2015, the Group acquired the advanced composites businesses of Cobham plc Advanced Composites for USD 200 million in cash, subject to an adjustment for working capital in the business at completion.
The acquisition comprised 100% of the voting rights of Cobham Advanced Composites Limited and Cobham Composites Products Inc. together with certain assets of Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Inc. Advanced Composites is aglobal leader in the design, development and production of highly engineered aerospace composite engine components spinners, internal multi-stage components, exhaust flaps, radomes C4I and defensive measures radomes, with agrowing position in civil radomes and complex secondary structures air-to-air refuelling, structural munitions components.
It has operating facilities located in the UKand United States.
Advanced Composites is being integrated into the Meggitt Polymers & Composites division.
On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in EDAC Composites LLC EDAC, the owner and operator of the former EDAC composites business, formerly known as Parkway Aerospace & Defense, from Greenbriar Equity Group and other associated sellers for USD 340 million in cash, subject to an adjustment for working capital in the business at completion.
EDAC produces highly engineered aerospace components for jet engine and airframe applications, with over 85% of revenues in civil aerospace composites.
It has asubstantial presence, via multi-year long-term agreements, on high-growth jet engine platforms including the GEnX, Pratt & Whitney PurePower family and LEAP engines.
It has operating facilities in the USA and Mexico.
EDAC is being integrated into the Meggitt Polymers & Composites division.
Total consideration paid in respect of acquisitions during the year is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Cash paid in respect of Advanced Composites 132.1 Cash paid in respect of EDAC 231.0 Cash received paid in respect of PECC 0.4 28.3 Cash paid in respect of other acquisitions 0.3 Total 362.7 28.6 Due to the proximity of the acquisitions of Advanced Composites and EDAC to the balance sheet date, the difference between the book value of acquired net assets and consideration payable has been provisionally recognised as goodwill.
During 2016, the Group will determine the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, with any corresponding adjustment necessary being made to the value of goodwill recognised.
138 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42. Business combinations continued The assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition, including the goodwill arising on consolidation, were as follows: Advanced EDAC Total Composites Notes m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 18 102.8 158.0 260.8 Other intangible assets 20 1.0 47.4 48.4 Property, plant and equipment 21 12.3 9.6 21.9 116.1 215.0 331.1 Current assets Inventories 20.8 16.9 37.7 Trade and other receivables 10.6 12.7 23.3 Current tax recoverable 0.1 0.1 31.4 29.7 61.1 Total assets 147.5 244.7 392.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 9.5 11.5 21.0 Current tax liabilities 0.6 0.6 Bank and other borrowings 40 4.1 2.2 6.3 14.2 13.7 27.9 Net current assets 17.2 16.0 33.2 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 32 0.6 0.6 Provisions 31 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.2 Total liabilities 15.4 13.7 29.1 Net assets 132.1 231.0 363.1 Consideration satisfied in cash 132.1 231.0 363.1 Total consideration payable satisfied in cash 132.1 231.0 363.1 For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2015, Advanced Composites contributed revenue of 7.1 million, an underlying profit before tax of0.4 million and aprofit before tax of 0.2 million.
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, had Advanced Composites been acquired on1 January 2015, would show an increase in revenue of 46.7 million and areduction in profit before tax of 3.0 million.
Due to the timing of the acquisition of EDAC, the impact on the results of the Group for the year is not significant.
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, had EDAC been acquired on 1 January 2015, would show an increase in revenue of 69.4 million and areduction in profit before tax of 0.7 million.
Pro forma information above has not been adjusted to reflect the Groups accounting policies due to the proximity of the acquisitions to the balance sheet date, to eliminate any costs that are not expected to recur, to adjust for any item that the Group would exclude from its underlying profit measures or to reflect any synergies arising from the acquisitions.
It includes however, acquisition related expenses incurred by the Group of 3.9 million see note 10 and finance costs that would have been payable in respect of borrowings incurred to finance the acquisitions had they completed on 1 January 2015.
The information therefore is for illustrative purposes only and is not indicative of the results of the Group, had the acquisitions been made on 1 January 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 139 43.
Restatement of prior year comparatives IFRS 3 requires fair values of assets and liabilities acquired to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
All fair value adjustments are required to be recorded with effect from the date of acquisition and consequently result in the restatement of previously reported financial results.
During 2015, the Group finalised the fair values of PECC which completed on 31 December 2014 and this resulted in adjustments to the balance sheet at that date.
These amendments primarily relate to the recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill and associated deferred tax liabilities.
Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired business and expected future synergies arising following the acquisition.
The impact of the restatements is shown below: 2014 2014 2014 As Fair value As reported adjustments restated m m m Goodwill see note 18 19.9 6.4 13.5 Other intangible assets see note 20 3.9 11.9 15.8 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Inventories 3.0 0.7 3.7 Trade and other receivables - current 1.4 0.1 1.3 Trade and other payables - current 0.6 0.6 Provisions - non-current 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities see note 32 6.1 6.1 Net assets 27.9 27.9 The finalisation of fair value adjustments had no impact on the 2014 income statement.
Group companies The Group and its subsidiaries are involved in the design and manufacture of high performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, test and automotive.
Certain subsidiary companies provide ancillary functions which support these operations.
Unless otherwise indicated, the Group percentage of equity capital and voting rights is 100%.
All entities primarily operate in their country ofincorporation and all companies listed are included in the consolidation.
Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company Incorporated in the United Kingdom Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Avica Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Pension Trust Limited Ordinary shares Dunlop Aerospace Limited Ordinary shares Negretti & Zambra Limited Ordinary shares Integrated Target Services Limited Ordinary shares Negretti Limited Ordinary shares KDG Holdings Limited Ordinary shares Phoenix Travel Dorset Limited The Groups holding is Meggitt Pamphill Limited Ordinary shares comprised of ordinary B shares 50% Meggitt Wimborne Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Engineering Limited Ordinary shares The Microsystems Group Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt International Holdings Limited Ordinary shares Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Incorporated in the United Kingdom Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Aircraft Braking Systems Europe Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Tarrant Limited Ordinary shares Aircraft Braking Systems Service Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt UK Limited Ordinary shares Atlantic House Pension Trustee Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Acquisition Limited Ordinary shares BAJ Coatings Limited The Group's holding is Meggitt Advanced Composites Limited Ordinary shares comprised of deferred Meggitt Aerospace Holdings Limited Ordinary shares shares 55.55% and Meggitt Aerospace Limited Ordinary shares ordinary shares 44.45% Meggitt Defence Systems Limited Ordinary shares Bells Engineering Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Filtration & Transfer Limited Ordinary shares Bestobell Aviation Products Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Finance Beta Ordinary shares Bestobell Engineering Products Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Finance Limited Ordinary shares Bestobell Insulation Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt International Limited Ordinary shares Bestobell Meterflow Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Investments Limited Ordinary shares Bestobell Mobrey Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Pension Plan Trustees Limited Private company limited byguarantee Bestobell Service Co Limited Ordinary shares 140 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 44.
Group companies continued Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Incorporated in the United Kingdom Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Bestobell Sparling Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Properties PLC Ordinary shares Cavehurst Limited Ordinary shares Metal Maps Limited Ordinary shares Chempix Limited Ordinary shares Micro Metallic Limited Ordinary shares Dunlop Aerospace Group Limited Ordinary shares Microponent Development Limited Ordinary shares Dunlop Aerospace Holdings Limited Ordinary shares Microponents Plates Limited The Group's holding is Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Ordinary shares comprised of ordinary A InvestmentsLimited shares 0.04%, ordinary B shares 0.04%, ordinary Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Limited Ordinary shares C shares 59.95% and Dunlop Holdings Limited Ordinary shares redeemable preference Dunlop Limited Ordinary shares shares 39.97% Endevco UK Limited Ordinary shares Evershed & Ayrton Fund Registered charity Microponents Limited Ordinary shares Evershed & Vignoles Limited Ordinary shares Miller Insulation & Engineering Limited Ordinary shares Firearms Training Systems Limited Ordinary shares Piher International Limited Ordinary shares Fotomechanix Limited Ordinary shares Precision Micro Limited Ordinary shares Heatric Limited The Group's holding is Serck Aviation Limited Ordinary shares comprised of ordinary Sparkleglen Limited Ordinary shares Ashares 60% and Target Technology Petrel Limited Ordinary shares ordinaryBshares 40% The Rotameter Manufacturing Co Limited Ordinary shares King Tool International Limited Ordinary shares Triscan Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Canford Limited Ordinary shares Vibro-Meter Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Colehill Limited Ordinary shares Wallaby Grip Limited Ordinary shares Meggitt Hurn Limited Ordinary shares Whittaker Aerospace Ordinary shares Meggitt Shapwick Limited Ordinary shares Incorporated in Rest of Europe Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Artus SAS France Ordinary shares Meggitt Holdings France SNC France Ordinary shares Cavehurst Finance Ireland Unlimited Ordinary shares Meggitt SA Switzerland The Groups holding Company - Ireland iscomprised of bearershares Endevco Vertriebs GmbH Germany Ordinary shares Europeenne fide Conception dEtudes Ordinary shares Meggitt Training Systems Europe Ordinary shares Technologiques SAS France BVHolland Meggitt France SAS France Ordinary shares Piher International GmbH Germany Ordinary shares Meggitt Sensorex SAS France Ordinary shares Piher Sensors & Controls SA Spain Ordinary shares Meggitt A S Denmark Ordinary shares Techniques et Fabrications Electroniques Ordinary shares Meggitt Acquisition France SAS France Ordinary shares SAS France Meggitt Finance S. a. r. l Luxembourg Ordinary shares Vibro-Meter SARL Switzerland Ordinary shares Meggitt GmbH Germany Ordinary shares Incorporated in North America Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % ABL Systems USA The Groups holding is Meggitt Erlanger, LLC USA Membership interest comprised of ordinary Meggitt Holdings USA, Inc. USA Common stock shares 50% Meggitt Holdings Canada Inc. Canada Common stock Alston Properties, LLC USA Membership interest Meggitt-Oregon, Inc. USA Common stock Aviation Mobility, LLC USA Membership interest Meggitt Queretaro, LLC USA Membership interest Erlanger Acquisition Corporation USA Common stock Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. USA Common stock GB Aero Engine, LLC USA Membership interest Meggitt Training Systems Quebec, Inc. Common stock Linear Motion, LLC USA Membership interest Canada Meggitt Baltimore, Inc. USA Meggitt Training Systems Canada Inc. Common stock Common stock Canada Meggitt Maryland, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt-USA Holdings, LLC USA Membership interest Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt-USA Services, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt Orange County, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt-USA, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. USA Common stock Nasco Aircraft Brake, Inc. USA Common stock STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 141 44.
Group companies continued Incorporated in North America Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Meggitt San Diego, Inc. USA Common stock OECO, LLC USA Membership interest Meggitt Simi Valley, Inc. USA Common stock Pacific Scientific Company USA Common stock Meggitt Troy, Inc. USA Common stock Park Chemical Company USA Common stock Meggitt Acquisition Erlanger, Inc. USA The Groups holding is Parkway-HS, LLC USA Membership interest 70% comprised of class A shares Piezotech, LLCUSA Membership interest 67.5%, class B shares Precision Engine Controls Common stock 12.5% and class C CorporationUSA shares 20% Radatec, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Common stock Securaplane Technologies, Inc. USA Common stock Corporation USA Valley Association Corporation USA The Groups holding is Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Common stock comprised of ordinary shares 33% KentuckyCorporation USA Whittaker Corporation USA Common stock Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. USA Common stock Whittaker Development Co USA Common stock Whittaker Ordnance, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt GP, Inc. USA Common stock Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. USA Common stock Whittaker Technical Products, Inc. USA Common stock Incorporated in other overseas countries Entity Name Description and proportion Entity Name Description and proportion of shares held % of shares held % Aero-Tech Composites fide Mexico, Quota interest Meggitt India Private Limited India The Group's holding S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico iscomprised of equityshares Artus Vietnam Co Limited Vietnam The Group's holding Meggitt Training Systems Australia Ordinary shares iscomprised of PtyLimited Australia owner'scapital Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls The Group's holding Meggitt Training Systems Pte Limited Ordinary shares CoLimited China iscomprised of Singapore registeredcapital Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Ordinary shares Parkway-Hamilton Sundstrand Mexico Quota interest 70% Limited Singapore S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Quota interest Wallaby Grip Australia Pty Limited Ordinary shares Queretaro, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico in liquidation Australia Meggitt Asia Pacific Pte Ordinary shares Wallaby Grip Industries Australia Ordinary shares Limited Singapore PtyLimited in liquidation Australia Meggitt Brasil Solucoes fide Engenharia The Groups holding Zambra Legal Pty Limited Australia Ordinary shares Ltda Brazil iscomprised of registeredcapital
