Melrose Industries PLC Governance 82 Annual Report 2015 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in of the corporate and financial information included on the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may law, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Directors responsibility statement they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the are required to: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation select suitable accounting policies and then apply them taken as a whole: consistently: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and prudent: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and uncertainties that they face: and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Geoffrey Martin Simon Peckham information: Group Finance Director Chief Executive provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 3March 2016 3 March 2016 specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 83 Financials Consolidated statements Company statements Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC 84 Company Balance Sheet for Melrose Industries PLC 138 Consolidated Income Statement 90 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 138 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 91 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 92 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Consolidated Balance Sheet 93 Note Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 94 1.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 140 Notes to the financial statements 3.
Profit for the period 140 Note 4.
Summary of significant accounting policies 96 6.
C ritical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 105 7.
Exceptional operating costs and income 109 7.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 116 13.
Financial instruments and risk management 130 25.
