Melrose Industries PLC Shareholder information 144 Annual Report 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting 12.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold This document is important and requires office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion your immediate attention.
If you are in any of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
doubt as to the action you should take, 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the you should consult your stockbroker, remuneration of the auditor of the Company.
bank manager, solicitor, accountant, fund 14.
That, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act manager or other independent financial 2006 the Act, the directors of the Company the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot adviser authorised under the Financial shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or Services and Markets Act 2000 if you to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights : are resident in the United Kingdom or, A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,317,356: and if not, another appropriately authorised B c omprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of independent financial adviser.
the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,634,713 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph Melrose Industries PLC the Company, you should send this A of this resolution in connection with an offer by way of document, together with the accompanying form of proxy, as soon a rights issue: as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected be practicable to their existing holdings: and for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, Directors otherwise consider necessary, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.30 a. m. on 11 May 2016 for the purposes and so that the Directors may impose any limits or set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive will be proposed as restrictions and make any arrangements which they ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 to 17 inclusive as special consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury resolutions.
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws Ordinary resolutions of any territory or any other matter, 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, together with such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the Companys the Directors report, strategic report and the auditors report next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, on those financial statements.
if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2017, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report other than before the authority expires which would or might require the part containing the Directors remuneration policy for the shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after the authority year ended 31 December 2015, as set out on pages 64 to 81 expires, and so that the Directors may allot shares or save for pages 76 to 81 of the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement 3.
To approve the Directors remuneration policy, as set out on notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution pages 76 to 81 of the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
To declare a final dividend of 2.6 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2015.
To re-elect Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect David Roper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect John Grant as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Liz Hewitt as a Director of the Company.
Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 145 Special resolutions C the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share 15.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 14, in accordance is not more than the higher of: with sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the Directors be and i 105% of the average of the middle-market quotation for are generally empowered to allot equity securities as defined an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authorities of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days granted by resolution 14 as if section 561 of the Act did not immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall share is purchased: and be limited: ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with the highest current independent bid on the trading venue an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment where the purchase is carried out, pursuant to the authority granted under paragraph B of resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment in each case, exclusive of expenses: of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of D this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys a rights issue only : next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2017: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and E the Company may make a contract of purchase of ordinary ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the shares under this authority which would or might be rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, Directors otherwise consider necessary, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and and so that the Directors may impose any limits or F any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority restrictions and make any arrangements which they may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury the Company, depending on which course of action is shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, considered by the Directors to be in the best interests regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of shareholders at the time.
of any territory or any other matter: and B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set 17.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting out in paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 14 up to an aggregate nominal amount of Recommendation 995,206, The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company such power to expire at the conclusion of the Companys and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, unanimously recommend that ordinary shareholders vote in favour if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2017, but, in each of all of the resolutions proposed, as the Directors intend to do in case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements respect of their own beneficial holdings.
before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and so that the By order of the Board Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this authority has expired.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company provided that: Adam Westley Company Secretary A th e maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares 24 March 2016 authorised to be purchased is 14,513,435: B th e minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share Registered Office: is the nominal value of an ordinary share at the time of such 11th Floor Colmore Plaza purchase: 20 Colmore Circus Queensway Birmingham West Midlands B4 6AT Melrose Industries PLC Shareholder information 146 Annual Report 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the Company is required to seek shareholder approval for the Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions Directors Remuneration Policy in respect of the new holding Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions, company.
The Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more 76 to 81 of the 2015 Annual Report reflects the policy approved than half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
by shareholders at the AGM held on 13 May 2014 to the extent Resolutions 15 to 17 inclusive are proposed as special resolutions, that the policy remains applicable going forwards.
which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour All remuneration payments and payments for loss of office made of the resolution.
by the Company to the current and any former Directors must be consistent with the Directors Remuneration Policy or, if inconsistent Resolution 1 Receipt of 2015 Annual Report and financial with the Directors Remuneration Policy, must have been separately statements approved by way of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders in The Directors are required to lay the Companys financial accordance with the relevant provisions of the Act.
statements, the strategic report and the Directors and auditors Resolution 3 is to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
reports on those financial statements collectively, the 2015 Annual The Directors Remuneration Policy will, subject to shareholder Report before shareholders each year at the Annual General approval, take effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
If the Directors Remuneration Policy is approved and remains Resolutions 2 and 3 Approval of Directors remuneration unchanged, it will be valid for up to three years without new report and Directors remuneration policy shareholder approval.
If the Company wishes to change the The Directors remuneration report the Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy, it must first seek approval Report is presented in three sections: of the amended policy from the shareholders.
If the Directors the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Remuneration Policy is not approved for any reason, the Company Committee: will, if and to the extent permitted by the Act, continue to make payments including payments for loss of office to the current and the annual report on remuneration: and any former Directors in accordance with any existing contractual the Directors remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration arrangements and will seek the approval of a proposed revised Policy.
Directors Remuneration Policy from the shareholders as soon as practicable.
The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, set out on pages 64 to 67 of the 2015 Annual Report, Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend summarises, for the year ended 31 December 2015, the major The Board is recommending, and shareholders are being asked decisions taken on Directors remuneration, any substantial to approve, the declaration of a final dividend of 2.6 pence per changes relating to Directors remuneration made during the year ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The final and the context in which those changes occurred and decisions dividend will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 16 May that have been taken.
2016 to the holders of ordinary shares whose names are recorded The annual report on remuneration, set out on pages 68 to 76 on the register of members of the Company at the close of of the 2015 Annual Report, provides details of the remuneration business on 8 April 2016. paid to Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015, including base salary, taxable benefits, short-term incentives, Resolutions 5 to 11 inclusive Re-election of Directors long-term incentives vested in the year, pension-related benefits, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the any other items in the nature of remuneration and any sum s Code and the Companys articles of association the Articles, recovered or withheld during the year in respect of amounts paid every Director with the exception of the senior non-executive in earlier years.
director, Perry Crosthwaite, who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM and will not stand for re-election will stand for re-election The Directors Remuneration Policy, set out on pages 76 to 81 of at the AGM.
Biographical details of each Director can be found the 2015 Annual Report, provides details of the Companys policy on pages 48 and 49 of the 2015 Annual Report.
All of the nonon Directors remuneration including the policy on payments for executive Directors standing for re-election are currently considered loss of office.
The Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to an annual advisory Resolution 12 Re-appointment of auditor shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution.
Resolution 2 is The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general to approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold containing the Directors Remuneration Policy.
office until the next such meeting.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, The Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution at least once independence and objectivity of the existing external auditor, every three years.
The policy was approved by shareholders at Deloitte LLP, on behalf of the Board, and concluded that the the AGM held on 13 May 2014 in respect of the former holding external auditor was in all respects effective.
company of the Melrose Group.
However, due to the introduction This resolution proposes the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP of a new holding company for the Melrose Group during 2015, until the conclusion of the next AGM.
Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 147 Resolution 13 Authority to agree auditors remuneration in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital in a rolling three-year period, in each case This resolution seeks authority for the Audit Committee to other than in connection with an acquisition or specified capital determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
investment which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors the authority to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights If approved, the Section 570 and 573 power shall apply until the to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, Company Rights, pursuant to section 551 of the Act Section if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2017.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the to this is that the Directors may allot equity securities after the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of power has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made 3,317,356, being approximately one-third of the Companys or entered into before the power expired.
The Directors have no issued ordinary share capital as at 23 March 2016 being the present intention to exercise the Section 570 and 573 power.
last business day prior to the publication of this notice.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, Resolution 16 Authority to purchase own shares paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant Rights in connection with the authority to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 a rights issue up to aggregate nominal amount of 6,634,713, and 701 of the Act.
representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued This authority is limited to an aggregate maximum number of ordinary share capital as at 23 March 2016, as reduced by the 14,513,435 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants under issued ordinary share capital as at 23 March 2016. paragraph A of this resolution.
The maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
will be an amount which is not more than the higher of i 5% above If approved, the Section 551 authority shall, unless renewed, the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share revoked or varied by the Company, expire at the end of the as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which at the close of business on 30 June 2017.
The exception to this is the ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights after the authority last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made or the trading venue where the purchase is carried out in each case, entered into before the authority expired.
The Directors have no exclusive of expenses.
present intention to exercise the Section 551 authority.
If approved, the authority shall, unless varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution Resolution 15 Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2017.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the power to allot equity securities of the Company pursuant to the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their sections 570 and 573 of the Act the Section 570 and 573 power authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Resolution 17 Notice period for general meetings other than AGMs The power is limited to allotments for cash in connection This resolution seeks shareholder approval to allow the Company with pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas days notice.
In accordance with the Act, as amended by the requirements and otherwise for cash up to a maximum nominal Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the notice value of 995,206, representing approximately 10% of the period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 23 March 2016. unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to The Directors intend to adhere to the guidelines set out in the a minimum period of 14 clear days.
In accordance with the Act, Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles as updated in March the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to 2015 and not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis all shareholders for that meeting in order to be able to call a general pursuant to the authority in Resolution 15 B : meeting on less than 21 clear days notice.
in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the Companys issued The Company intends to only use the shorter notice period ordinary share capital: or where this flexibility is merited by the purpose of the meeting and is considered to be in the interests of shareholders generally, and not as a matter of routine.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Melrose Industries PLC Shareholder information 148 Annual Report 2015 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes as to the proxy, voting and attendance 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may procedures at the Annual General Meeting AGM do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available at www.
The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST to attend the AGM and are entitled to vote.
A member entitled members who have appointed a service provider s, should to attend, speak and vote at the AGM is also entitled to appoint refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
and vote at the AGM in his her place.
Such a member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed required for such instruction, as described in the CREST or a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the received by the Companys registrars at the address specified appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be part of a day that is not a working day before the stated time valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent for holding the meeting or, in the event of an adjournment, ID RA19 by 11.30 a. m. on 9 May 2016.
For this purpose, the not less than 48 hours before the stated time of the adjourned time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the meeting excluding any part of a day which is not a working time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application day.
Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person appointed through CREST should be communicated to the nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information appointee through other means.
rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was sponsors, or voting service providers should note that nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message the holders of ordinary shares in the Company.
is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where purposes of the determination by the Company of the number applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Companys register of members by 6.00 p. m. on 9 May 2016 Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two and timings.
days, excluding any day which is not a working day, before the time of the adjourned meeting.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the meeting.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all 5.
As at 23 March 2016 being the last business day prior to the of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital relation to the same shares.
consists of 145,134,353 ordinary shares of 48 7 pence each, carrying one vote each.
Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 149 17.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website 11.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold at www.
In order to register your vote online, requirements set out in that section have the right to require you will need to enter the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out Reference Number which are set out on the enclosed form of any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts proxy.
The return of the form of proxy by post or registering your including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit vote online will not prevent you from attending the AGM and that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance voting in person, should you wish.
Alternatively, shareholders connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any then clicking on the link to vote under their Melrose Industries such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with PLC holding details.
The on-screen instructions give details sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required on how to complete the appointment process.
A proxy to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not any address other than those provided or if received after later than the time when it makes the statement available on 11.30 a. m. on 9 May 2016. the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Any member holding ordinary shares attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: and or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Voting at the AGM will be by poll.
The Chairman will invite each shareholder, corporate representative and proxy present at the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected during the meeting.
Once the results have been verified by the Companys registrar, Equiniti, they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority, announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will be available to view on the Companys website.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the AGM and at the place of the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: A copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries: and B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors of the Company.
