Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 139 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 1.
Significant accounting policies Melrose Industries PLC the Company was incorporated on 29 September 2015 as New Melrose Industries PLC.
The Company changed its name to Melrose Industries PLC and was admitted to the London Stock Exchange as the new listed holding company of the Melrose Group on 19 November 2015.
Basis of accounting Melrose Industries PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 44.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The functional currency of Melrose Industries PLC is considered to be pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Melrose Industries PLC meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 102 and has therefore taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available to it in respect of its separate financial statements.
Melrose Industries PLC is consolidated in its Group financial statements.
Exemptions have been taken in these separate Company financial statements in relation to share-based payments, presentation of a cash flow statement and remuneration of key management personnel.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the period.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors statement of going concern on page 26 of the Finance Directors review.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less impairment.
For investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value of the shares issued plus fair value of other consideration.
Impairment of assets Assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss as described below.
Non-financial assets An asset is impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after initial recognition, the estimated recoverable value of the asset has been reduced.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where indicators exist for a decrease in impairment loss, the prior impairment loss is tested to determine reversal.
An impairment loss is reversed on an individual impaired asset to the extent that the revised recoverable value does not lead to a revised carrying amount higher than the carrying value had no impairment been recognised.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The required disclosures are included in the Group consolidated financial statements.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Melrose Industries PLC Financials 140 Annual Report 2015 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are made available to employees of the Companys subsidiaries, these are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award with a corresponding increase in the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Companys accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Management are required to exercise their judgement when assessing assets for indicators of impairment and determining what the appropriate valuation should be.
At 31 December 2015, the Companys principal asset, its investment in subsidiary undertakings, had a carrying amount of 2,764.8 million.
Management use their judgement in estimating the recoverable amount of each investment.
In addition to considering the current value of each investments net asset position, management also consider future performance which may require management to exercise judgement relating to future cash flows, discount factors and long-term growth rates.
Management draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
Profit for the period As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own Profit and Loss Account for the period.
Melrose Industries PLC reported a loss for the financial period ended 31 December 2015 of 0.7 million.
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company is disclosed in note 7 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
Investment in subsidiaries m At beginning of period Additions 2,764.8 At 31 December 2015 2,764.8 Details of the Companys direct and indirect subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015 are shown below.
Each of the subsidiaries listed below are included in the consolidated accounts of the Company.
The following subsidiary is directly owned by Melrose Industries PLC: Subsidiary Country of incorporation Principal activity Holding % Melrose Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 141 The following subsidiaries and significant holdings were indirectly owned by the Company as at 31 December 2015: Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Principal activity Equity interest % Energy Bristol Meci Australasia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100 Brush Aftermarket North America Inc. USA Holding company 100 Brush Canada Services Inc. Services Brush Canada Inc. Canada Engineering company 100 Brush Electrical Machines Changshu Co. Limited China Engineering company 100 Brush Electrical Machines Limited United Kingdom Engineering company 100 Brush HMA B. V. Netherlands Engineering company 100 Brush Japan KK Japan Engineering company 100 Brush SEM s. r. o. Czech Republic Engineering company 100 Brush Transformers Limited United Kingdom Engineering company 100 Brush Turbogenerators Inc. USA Engineering company 100 FKI Engineering Shanghai Limited China Non-trading company 100 FKI Switchgear Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Non-trading company 100 Generator and Motor Services of Pennsylvania LLC USA Engineering company 100 Harrington Generators International Limited United Kingdom Engineering company 100 Hawker Siddeley Switchgear Limited United Kingdom Engineering company 100 Hawker Siddeley Switchgear Pty Limited Australia Engineering company 100 Mediterranean Power Electric Company Limited Malta Engineering company 26 Corporate Alcester Capricorn United Kingdom Dormant 100 Alcester EP1 Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Alcester Number 1 Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Alcester Overseas Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Alcester Plastics Company Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Alcester Precision Investments United Kingdom Dormant 100 BlueAzure Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Brush Electrical Engineering Company Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Brush Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Brush Properties Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Brush Scheme Trustees Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Brush Switchgear Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Colmore Lifting Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Colmore Overseas Holdings Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Danks Holdings Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Eachairn Aerospace Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Electro Dynamic Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 FKI Distribution Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 FKI Nominees Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 FKI Plan Trustees Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Hamsard 2246 United Kingdom Dormant 100 McKechnie Employee Services Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 McKechnie 2005 Pension Scheme Trustee Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Melrose North America, Inc. USA Non-trading company 100 Melrose Overseas Holdings Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Melrose PFG Company Number 1 Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Melrose PLC United Kingdom Holding company 100 Melrose Propco Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Melrose UK Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Melrose UK 4 Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Melrose UK 5 Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Melrose USD 1 Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Precision House Management Services Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Melrose Industries PLC Financials 142 Annual Report 2015 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet continued 4.
Investment in subsidiaries continued Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Principal activity Equity interest % Prelok Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 Prelok Specialist Products Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Sageford UK Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Whipp & Bourne Limited United Kingdom Non-trading company 100 Zebra 123 Limited United Kingdom Dormant 100 5.
Creditors 31 December 2015 m Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.2 Accruals and other payables 0.1 0.3 The Directors consider that amounts owed to Group undertakings approximate to their fair value.
Issued share capital 31 December 2015 Share Capital m Allotted, called up and fully paid 995,206,966 ordinary shares of 1p each 10.0 10.0 On 19 November 2015, a scheme of arrangement approved by the High Court of England and Wales became effective and resulted in New Melrose Industries PLC subsequently renamed Melrose Industries PLC on 19 November 2015 becoming the new holding company of Melrose Industries PLC subsequently renamed Melrose Holdings Limited on 19 November 2015 and its subsidiaries.
The arrangement resulted in the issue of 1 new 26.5 pence New Melrose Industries PLC ordinary share for each 7 55 pence Melrose Industries PLC ordinary share.
New Melrose Industries PLC consequently issued 995,206,966 ordinary shares with a total nominal value of 263.8 million.
The market capitalisation of the Melrose Group at that date was 2,764.7 million.
The difference between the market capitalisation and the total nominal value of shares issued of 2,500.9 million has been taken to the Merger reserve.
On 20 November 2015, Melrose Industries PLC received Court confirmation of the reduction in its Issued share capital pursuant to which the nominal value of each ordinary share was reduced from 26.5 pence to 1 penny effective on 23 November 2015.
This resulted in Issued share capital decreasing by 253.8 million and Retained earnings increasing by an equivalent amount.
Details of share-based payments are given in note 22 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
Related party transactions The Company has taken the exemption in FRS 102.33: Related party information not to disclose intercompany balances and transactions in the period with fully owned subsidiary undertakings.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 143 8.
Post Balance Sheet events At a general meeting of the Company held on 2 October 2015, shareholders approved a Return of Capital of between 2.0 billion and 2.5billion following the completion of the disposal of Elster.
On 29 December 2015, the Company announced that the Return of Capital would be 240 pence per ordinary share totalling 2,388.5 million.
B shares with a total value of 2,388.5 million were created on 26 January 2016 resulting in a corresponding reduction in the Merger reserve.
The B shares were cancelled on 27 January 2016 and capital return payments representing the nominal value of the B shares 240 pence each were made to shareholders on 5 February 2016.
Alongside the capital return, on 28 January 2016 the number of ordinary shares in issue was consolidated in a ratio of 7 for 48 in order to maintain comparability of the Companys share price before and after the capital return.
On 28 January 2016, the number of ordinary shares in issue became 145,134,353 each with a nominal value of 48 7 pence.
As a consequence of the Return of Capital, the carrying value of the investment in subsidiaries was revised to be in line with the remaining value of the Group.
Further details of the capital return are provided on pages 50 and 51 in the Directors Report.
