Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GLOSSARY Key terms Definition Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders, adjusted for exceptional items, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Blackstone Was one of the three pre-IPO major shareholders of the Company.
Cluster A group of attractions located in a city close to one another.
Constant currency growth Using 2015 exchange rates.
CVC Was one of the three pre-IPO major shareholders of the Company.
This is a new attraction opened in 2015.
It is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
EBITDA Profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
Exceptional items Due to their nature, certain one-off and non-trading items have been classified as exceptional in order to draw them to the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business performance more accurately.
Existing estate EE EE comprises all attractions other than new openings.
High year Year of high spend in capital investment cycle of an attraction.
KIRKBI KIRKBI owns 75% of LEGO A S and owns 29.89% of the share capital of Merlin Entertainments plc.
LDC LEGOLAND Discovery Centre attractions.
These are part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
Lead price Face value of a ticket, which may then be discounted.
Like for like LFL 2015 LFL growth refers to the growth between 2014 and 2015 on a constant currency basis using 2015 exchange rates and includes all businesses owned and operated before the start of 2014.
Listing Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
164 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GLOSSARY Key terms Definition LLP LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group.
Merlin Magic Making MMM MMM is the unique resource that sits at the heart of everything Merlin does.
Employing over 300 people, this specialist in-house business development: creative: production: and project management group constantly raises the bar in innovative thinking.
Merlins Magic Wand MMW MMW forms a key element of Merlins Corporate Social Responsibility commitment.
Our very own childrens charity delivers magical experiences around the world to children who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
Midway or Midway attractions The Midway Attractions Operating Group and or the Midway attractions within it.
Midway attractions are typically smaller, indoor attractions located in city centres or resorts.
New Business Development NBD NBD relates to attractions that are newly opened or under development for future opening, together with the addition of new accommodation at existing sites.
New openings can include both Midway attractions and new theme parks.
NBD combines with the existing estate to give the full estate of attractions.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on underlying operating profit after tax.
The capital employed element of the calculation is based on average net operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred tax, financial assets and liabilities, and net debt.
ROIC Return on Invested Capital.
Incremental EBITDA divided by the capital invested.
Rooms A single accommodation unit at one of our theme parks, for example a hotel room, lodge or glamping tent.
RPC Revenue per capita, defined as visitor revenue divided by number of visitors.
RTP Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
SLC SEA LIFE Centre aquarium attractions.
Second gate A visitor attraction at an existing resort with a separate entrance and for which additional admission fees are charged.
Turkuazoo Turkuazoo Aquarium was a standalone acquisition that has since been relaunched as a SEA LIFE Centre.
This is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
Underlying Underlying information presented excludes exceptional items that are classified separately within the financial statements.
Visitors Represents all individual visits to Merlin owned or operated attractions.
Wizard Wants to Know WWTK WWTK is our annual online employee survey.
165 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES 166 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Star Wars & Lucasfilm Ltd. MARVEL Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, How To Train Your Dragon DreamWorks Animation LLC.
Horrible Histories is a registered trademark of Scholastic Inc and is used under authorization.
Based on the bestselling books written by Terry Deary and illustrated by Martin Brown.
ICE AGE 2016 Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation.
LEGO, the LEGO logo, the Brick and Knob configurations, the Minifigure, LEGENDS OF CHIMA, NINJAGO and LEGOLAND are trademarks of the LEGO Group 2016 The LEGO Group.
London Eye conceived and designed by Marks Barfield Architects.
Operated by London Eye Management Services Limited, a Merlin Entertainments Group Company.
The Madame Tussauds images shown depict wax figures created and owned by Madame Tussauds.
167 Designed and produced by LMC Design.
Printed in the UK on FSC certified CHORUS SILK.
Registered office Merlin Entertainments plc 3 Market Close Poole Dorset BH15 1NQ United Kingdom Registered number: 08700412 Registered in England and Wales www.
