Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Responsibilities Statement  The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report of the corporate and financial information included on the and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the with applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are required to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
For this Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Health, Safety and Security purpose, the Company is the parent Company of the Group.
Committee as well as from its legal and other professional The Group financial statements are required to be prepared in advisers, the Board considers the Annual Report and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS and applicable law.
The and understandable and that it provides the information Company has elected to prepare the Company financial necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and performance, business model and strategy.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept and they The Directors must not approve the financial statements unless hereby exclude any liability to any person in relation to this they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of report except to the extent that such liability is imposed by affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of law and may not be validly excluded.
the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: are required to: The Group financial statements contained in this report Select suitable accounting policies and then apply which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as them consistently.
adopted by the EU, when taken as a whole, give a true and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit For the Group financial statements, state whether they of the Group.
have been prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRS.
The Company financial statements which have been For the Company financial statements, state whether prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Standards, give a true and fair view of the state subject to any material departures disclosed and explained of affairs of the Company.
in the Company financial statements.
The Directors Report and the other sections of this report Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis referred to therein together represent a fair review of the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and strategy, development and performance of the business and the Company will continue in business.
the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time NickVarney AndrewCarr the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure   that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 24 February 2016 24 February 2016 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
