Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 SHAREHOLDER Information Share listing Shareholder communications The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We encourage our shareholders to receive their communications from the Company electronically using email and web-based Share register and registrars communications.
This means that information about the The Companys share register is maintained and administered Company can be received as soon as it is available.
The use in the UK by Computershare Investor Services PLC of electronic communications also reduces costs and the Computershare at the following address: impact on the environment.
Shareholders can register for electronic communications through Investor Centre or Computershare Telephone: by contacting Computershare.
Investor Services PLC 44 0 370 703 6259 The Pavilions Investor Centre: Shareholders with any queries regarding their shareholding Bridgwater Road www.
co. uk contactus should contact Computershare.
The Investor Relations section Bristol Website: of our corporate website also contains information which shareholders may find helpful BS99 6ZZ www.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for Merlin Annual General Meeting AGM shareholders called Investor Centre.
This provides our The AGM of the Company will be held on 19 May 2016 at Safari shareholders with online access to information about their Hotel, Chessington World of Adventures, Leatherhead Road, investments as well as a facility to help manage their Chessington, Surrey, KT9 2NE at 11.00am.
The Notice of AGM holdings online, such as being able to: will be sent to shareholders separately.
Update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend payment history.
Registered in Company number Update member details and address changes.
England and Wales 08700412 Register to receive Company communications electronically.
EPIC TIDM ISIN Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share MERL GB00BDZT6P94 dealing service to existing shareholders which can also be accessed through the Investor Centre.
Registered office Merlin Entertainments plc Dividends 3 Market Close An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share was paid on 24 Poole September 2015 to shareholders on the Register on 14 August 2015.
Dorset BH15 1NQ A final dividend for the year ended 26 December 2015 of 4.4 United Kingdom pence per share will be recommended to shareholders for approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
biz Dividend Re-Investment Plan Website: www.
biz The Company has introduced a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP which allows holders of ordinary shares, who choose Company secretary Investor relations director to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire additional Colin N. Armstrong Alistair Windybank shares in the Company which will be purchased on their behalf by the DRIP administrator.
Further information in relation to the External auditors DRIP will be sent to shareholders in advance of the 2016 KPMG LLP Annual General Meeting.
Gateway House, Tollgate Chandlers Ford Financial calendar Southampton, SO53 3TG Telephone The principal dates in our financial calendar for 2016 are United Kingdom 44 0 23 8020 2000 as follows: Joint Corporate Brokers Preliminary Announcement of Results 25 February Barclays Bank PLC Citigroup Global Markets Limited Trading Update 19 May 5 North Colonnade Citigroup Centre, Canada Square Annual General Meeting 19 May Canary Wharf Canary Wharf Interim Results Announcement 28 July London London Trading Update 29 September E14 4BB E14 5LB Pre-Close Trading Update 29 November 162
