Company information Directors Company Secretary, Registrars Kevin Loosemore Equiniti Limited Registered and Head Office Executive Chairman Aspect House Jane Smithard Spencer Road The Lawn Mike Phillips Lancing 22-30 Old Bath Road Chief Financial Officer West Sussex BN99 6DA Newbury United Kingdom Berkshire RG14 1QN Karen Slatford www.
co. uk United Kingdom Senior Independent Non-executive director www.
com Brokers Richard Atkins Registered in England number 5134647 Numis Securities Limited Independent Non-executive director The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square Legal advisers Tom Skelton London EC4M 7LT Travers Smith LLP Independent Non-executive director United Kingdom 10 Snow Hill London EC1A ZAL Tom Virden United Kingdom Independent Non-executive director Lawrence Graham LLP David Golob 4 More London Riverside Non-executive director London SE1 2AU United Kingdom Prescott Ashe Non-executive director Independent auditors  LLP Karen Geary 9 Greyfriars Road Independent Non-executive director Reading Berkshire RG1 1JG United Kingdom Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 148 Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this Annual Report, including those under the captions entitled Executive Chairmans statement, Operational and financial review, directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development and deployment applications by organizations: the level of deployment-related revenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organizations adopt web-enabled services: the rate at which large organizations migrate applications from the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth in the information technology services market: general economic and business conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: and the Companys ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.
These forward-looking statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Financial Conduct Authority, or by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Design and production: Gather 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
london The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 565200 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 www.
