ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Special Business Michael Page International plc To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, of the Company Registered in England which 13 and 14 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and and Wales No.
03310225 15,16, 17 and 18 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 13.
Ordinary Resolution Authority to Allot Shares Note 3 IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and action you should take, you are recommended to seek your unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of own independent financial advice from a stockbroker, bank the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial adviser of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant authorised under the Financial Services and Markets rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in Act 2000. the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in 1,086,493.18, provided that this authority, shall expire at the the Company, please send this document, together with the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company accompanying documents but not the personalised Form of or, if earlier, on 9 September 2017, save that the Company shall Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all Annual General Meeting unexercised authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot shares and grant Rights be and are hereby revoked.
Ordinary Resolution Donations to Political Organisations and NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Political Expenditure Note 4 Company will be held at Page House, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, THAT in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies The Bourne Business Park, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey Act 2006 the Act the Company, and all companies that are KT15 2QW on Thursday 9 June 2016 at 9.30am for the following subsidiaries of the Company at the date on which this Resolution purposes: 14 is passed or during the period when this Resolution 14 has Ordinary Business effect, be generally and unconditionally authorised to: a make political donations to political parties or independent As ordinary business to consider, and if thought fit, pass election candidates as defined in the Act, not exceeding Resolutions 1 to 12 inclusive, which will be proposed as Ordinary 25,000 in total: Resolutions: b make political donations to political organisations other than 1.
To receive and consider the Directors and Auditors political parties, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 25,000 Reports and the Statement of Accounts for the year ended in total: and 31 December 2015. c incur political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report, other than exceeding 25,000 in total: the Directors Remuneration Policy, in the form set out in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, for the year ended during the period commencing on the date of passing this 31 December 2015.
Note 1 Resolution 14 and ending on 9 September 2017 or at the close of business of the next Annual General Meeting of 3.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary share capital of the the Company whichever is the earlier provided that the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 7.9p per authorised sum referred to in paragraphs a, b and c share.
above, may be comprised of one or more amounts in different 4.
To re-elect David Lowden as a Director of the Company.
currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said Note 2 sum, shall be converted into Pounds Sterling at the exchange 5.
To re-elect Simon Boddie as a Director of the Company.
rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times Note 2 on the date on which the relevant donation is made or 6.
To re-elect Danuta Gray as a Director of the Company.
expenditure incurred or the first business day thereafter or, Note 2 if earlier, on the day on which the Company enters into any contract or undertaking in relation to the same provided that, 7.
To re-elect Steve Ingham as a Director of the Company.
in any event, the aggregate amount of political donations and Note 2 political expenditure made or incurred by the Company and 8.
To re-elect Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE as a its subsidiaries pursuant to this Resolution 14 shall not exceed Director of the Company.
To re-elect Kelvin Stagg as a Director of the Company.
Special Resolution Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Note 2 Note 5 10.
To elect Patrick fide Smedt as a Director of the Company.
Note 2 THAT the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act 11.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General the Act for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Resolution 13 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as 12.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment remuneration of the Auditor.
provided that this power shall be limited to: 126 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend register of members at such record date as the Directors may that you vote in favour of the Resolutions as they intend to do determine where the equity securities respectively attributable in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount to to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate 1,353,714 shares representing 0.41% of the existing issued share as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers capital of the Company.
of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on By order of the Board any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or Elaine Marriner expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements Company Secretary Michael Page International plc or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by Page House, depositary receipts or any other matter: and 1 Dashwood Lang Road, The Bourne Business Park, b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph Addlestone, a of this Resolution 15 to any person or persons of equity Weybridge, securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 162,973.97, Surrey KT15 2QW and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, save that the Company Registered in England No.
03310225 shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the 9 April 2016 expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such Notes offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had 1.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration not expired.
Special Resolution Power to Buy Back Shares in the Market New requirements were introduced in 2014 in relation to Note 6 the content of the Directors Remuneration Report and the THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised approval of the Report, following changes made to the Act.
to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 In accordance with these new provisions, the Directors of the Companies Act 2006 the Act of ordinary shares of 1p Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts each of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the contains:- Directors may from time to time determine, provided that: a a statement by Danuta Gray, Remuneration Committee a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised Chairman: to be acquired is 32,594,795 representing 10% of the issued b the Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out ordinary share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2016: payments made in or relating to the financial year ending b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 2015: and is 1p: c the Dir ectors Remuneration Policy Table the Table in c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary relation to future payments to the Directors and former share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the directors, which was approved by shareholders at the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in the Annual General Meeting held in June 2014.
The Table Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily has been included in the Directors Remuneration Report Official List for the five business days immediately preceding in accordance with good practice.
the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: The statement by the Remuneration Committee d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion Chairman and the Annual Report on Remuneration is of the next Annual General Meeting or 9 September 2017 put to an annual advisory shareholder vote by Ordinary whichever is earlier unless previously renewed, varied or Resolution.
The Remuneration Policy part of the Report, revoked by the Company in general meeting: and which sets out the Companys forward looking policy e the Company may make a contract to purchase its ordinary on directors remuneration including the approach shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry to exit payments to directors, is subject to a binding of such authority, which contract will or may be executed shareholder vote by Ordinary Resolution at least every wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may three years.
It will not, therefore, be put to a shareholder purchase its ordinary shares in pursuance of any such vote at the Meeting.
The Dir ectors Remuneration Report is set out in full 17.
Special Resolution - Change of Company Name Note 7 in the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 67 to 79.
Resolution 2 is the Ordinary Resolution to approve THAT the name of the Company be and it is hereby changed to the Directors Remuneration Report.
an advisory resolution and does not affect the future remuneration paid to any director.
Special Resolution Notice of General Meetings Note 8 THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, 2.
Resolutions 4 to 10 Election Re-election of Directors may be called on not less than 14 business days notice.
In keeping with the Boards aim of following best corporate practice, each member of the Board is standing for The Board consider that all the proposals to be considered at the re-election, and in the case of Patrick fide Smedt, who Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of the has been appointed a Director since the last Annual 127 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 General Meeting, election by the shareholders at this years latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice Meeting.
Biographical information on each of the Directors otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing is contained on pages 51 to 54 of the Annual Report and shareholders.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal The Directors have no present intention of exercising this performance evaluation, all Directors standing for election authority.
The Directors confirm their intention to follow re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of commitment to the role.
Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within 3.
Resolution 13 Directors Authority to Allot Shares a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide that If passed, Resolution 13 will give the Directors authority to companies should not issue for cash shares representing in allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to a excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any maximum nominal amount of 1,086,493.18 representing rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary without prior consultation with shareholders.
share capital as at 9 April 2016 the latest practicable 6.
Resolution 16 Power to Buy Back Shares in the Market date before publication of this Notice.
This authority will Resolution 16 gives the Company authority to buy back lapse 15 months from the passing of the Resolution or its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the at the next Annual General Meeting, whichever shall first Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could occur.
Other than the allotment of shares arising from the be purchased to a maximum of 32,594,795 representing vesting of shares or the exercise of options in respect of the 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at Companys share and share option schemes, the Directors 9 April 2016 the latest practicable date prior to publication have no present intention of allotting new shares.
As at the of this Notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
date of this Notice the Company does not hold any ordinary This authority will expire 15 months from the passing of the shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
Resolution or at the next Annual General Meeting, whichever 4.
Resolution 14 Donations to Political Organisations and shall first occur.
Political Expenditure The Directors have no present intention of exercising the For the purpose of this Resolution, political donations, authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but political organisations and political expenditure have the will keep the matter under review, taking into account the meanings given to them in sections 363 to 365 of the Act.
In financial resources of the Company, the Companys share accordance with its business principles, it is the Companys price and future funding opportunities.
The authority will be policy not to make contributions to political parties.
There exercised only if the Directors believe that to do so would is no intention to change it.
However, what constitutes a result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in political party, a political organisation, political donations the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of or political expenditure under the Act is not easy to ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases decide as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation.
through the London Stock Exchange.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed leave for employees fulfilling public duties and support to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
for bodies representing the business community in policy No dividends are paid on shares while they are held in review or reform, among other things, may fall within these treasury and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Therefore, notwithstanding that the Company has not made a political donation in the past, and has no intention If Resolution 16 is passed at the Meeting, it is the Companys of, either now or in the future, making any political donation current intention to cancel all of the shares it may purchase or incurring any political expenditure in respect of any pursuant to the authority granted to it.
However, in order to political party, political organisation or independent election respond properly to the Companys capital requirements candidate, the Board has decided to put forward Resolution and prevailing market conditions, the Directors will need 14 to renew the authority granted by shareholders at the to reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase last Annual General Meeting of the Company.
This will allow whether to hold the shares in treasury or cancel them, the Company to continue to support the community and provided it is permitted to do so.
put forward its views to wider business and Government As at 9 April 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the interests without running the risk of being in breach of the publication of this Notice, there were 2,626,024 options law.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 14 also covers to subscribe for shares in the capital of the Company any of these activities by the Companys subsidiaries.
representing 0.80% of the Companys issued share capital.
Resolution 15 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights If this authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares and the existing authority to purchase taken at last years Resolution 15 will give the Directors authority to allot shares Annual General Meeting which expires at the end of this in the capital of the Company pursuant to the authority years Meeting were to be exercised in full, these options granted under Resolution 13 for cash without complying with would represent 1% of the Companys issued share capital.
the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain circumstances.
This authority will permit the Directors to allot: 7.
Resolution 17 Change of Company Name a shares up to a nominal amount of 1,086,493.18, This Resolution seeks to change the name of the Company representing approximately one-third of the Companys from its current name to PageGroup plc.
The Company issued share capital on an offer to existing shareholders underwent a rebranding exercise in 2013, but did not, at on a pre-emptive basis in each case subject to that time, change its name.
The Directors now wish the adjustments for fractional entitlements and overseas Company to use PageGroup plc as its company name.
shareholders as the Directors see fit : and 8.
Resolution 18 Notice of General Meetings b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 162,973.97 This Resolution seeks to renew the authority granted at representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary the 2015 Annual General Meeting to allow the Company share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2016 the 128 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 to call general meetings, other than an annual general b in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST meeting, on 14 business days notice.
The minimum notice electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with period for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, the procedures set out in Note 13 below: but companies may reduce this period to 14 business days and in each case must be received by the Company not less other than for annual general meetings provided that two than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
The first condition is that a company offers 12.
A copy of this Notice has been sent for information only to a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy condition is met if a company offers a facility, accessible to information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The rights to appoint a proxy The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of cannot be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person period from 21 clear days to 14 business days.
If approved, may have a right under an agreement between him and the the Resolution will allow the Company to retain maximum member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a flexibility to seek shareholder approval for any future change proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
or transaction that may require such approval.
This authority If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does will be effective until the next Annual General Meeting, when not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The agreement to give instructions to the member as to the Board will consider on a case by case basis whether the use exercise of voting rights.
of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the 13.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies business of the meeting is time sensitive.
by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the 9.
To be entitled to attend and vote, whether in person or CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
by proxy, at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting, com CREST.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST members must be registered in the Register of Members of sponsored members, and those CREST members who have the Company at 6.00 pm on Tuesday 7 June 2016 or, if the appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date which is two CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction number of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain may appoint another person s who need not be a member the information required for such instructions, as described of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by shares held by him.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s must attend the Meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to proxy using the Form of Proxy are set out in the notes to the be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to Form of Proxy.
the message by the CREST Applications Host from 10.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction terminated.
in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the 11.
A Form of Proxy which may be used to make this appointment Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST do not have a Form of Proxy and believe that you should have sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI one, please contact Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 does not make available special procedures in CREST for any or 44 0 208 639 3399 calls cost 12p per minute plus your particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations phone companys access charges.
Calls from outside the will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member rate.
Lines are open Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.30pm, concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
If you require personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a additional copies of the Form of Proxy you may photocopy the voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor Form of Proxy.
or voting service provider s take s such action as shall 12.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by together with any authority under which it is executed or a means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this copy of the authority certified or in some other way approved connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their by the Directors by one of the following methods: CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in a in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning Companys Registrar, at, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
As at 9 April 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 325,947,955 ordinary shares.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 325,947,955.
The contents of this Notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, details of the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this Notice will be available on the Companys website: www.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that is to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditor no later than the time it makes the statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting that is put by a member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Copies of the contract of service for each of Mr S Ingham and Mr K Stagg and the letters of appointment for the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company are available for inspection on the day of the Meeting, at the place of the Meeting, from at least 30 minutes prior to the Meeting until its conclusion.
The same documents are otherwise available for inspection at the Registered Office Address of the Company during normal business hours Monday to Friday Bank Holidays excepted.
You may not use any electronic address in this Notice to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
com PageGroup is the trading name of Michael Page International plc
