ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Employment Policy and Post Balance Sheet Events Employee Involvement There have been no significant post balance sheet events since 31 December 2015.
The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having Reappointment of Auditor regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue in office and accordingly who may become disabled during their employment and the resolutions concerning their reappointment and to authorise provision of training and career development and promotion, the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the where appropriate.
The Group also remains committed to forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
employee involvement throughout the business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular meetings, emails and other Directors Statements of communications from the Chief Executive Officer and members of the Executive Board.
Further details of employment policies and Responsibility employee involvement can be found in the Strategic Report on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and pages 25 and 26.
Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations and keeping proper accounting records.
Detailed below are statements Directors Indemnities made by the Directors in relation to their responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Companys auditor and going concern.
The Company has not granted separate indemnities to the Directors.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers Liability Insurance throughout the period under 1.
Financial Statements and Accounting Records review, which gives appropriate cover for legal actions brought Company law of England and Wales requires the Directors to against the Directors.
prepare for each financial year financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Financial Instruments and Financial Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Risk Management In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, including i select suitable accounting policies and apply them financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, consistently: and exposure of the Group to certain financial risks can be found ii make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and in Note 21 on pages 116 to 120. prudent: iii present information, including accounting policies, in a Significant Agreements Containing Change of manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Control Provisions understandable information: The Company has an invoice discounting facility that terminates iv state whether the Group financial statements have been on a change of control, with prepaid amounts being repayable.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and Article 4 Directors and employees contracts do not normally provide of the EU IAS Regulations: for payment for loss of office or employment as a result of a v state whether the parent company financial statements have change of control.
However the Company operates several share been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in schemes for the benefit of its Executive Directors and employees, the EU: and the rules of which contain provisions which may cause options and awards granted to vest on a change of control.
vi prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Political Contributions The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting No political contributions were made during the year.
The records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Company has a policy of not making political donations to political the financial position of the Company and of the Group and to organisations or independent election candidates anywhere enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Directors in the world as defined by the Political Parties, Election and Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Referendums Act 2000. for the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
84 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Directors Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Annual General Meeting the corporate and financial information included on the Companys The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the held on 9 June 2016 and the notice of meeting can be preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ found on pages 126 to 130.
It is also available on the Companys from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement By order of the Board The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: i the Group and parent company financial statements, Elaine Marriner prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give Company Secretary a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 9 March 2016 and profit of the Group and parent company: and ii the Directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Directors Confirmation The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, as fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware as at the date of this Statement, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
