Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Reporting entity Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 18 February 2016.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale which are stated at their fair values.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies operating profit and other operating income and expense.
This is in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
The financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002.
Details of the Groups accounting policies, including changes during the year, are included below.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Interests in equity-accounted investees The Groups interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in joint-ventures and associates.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint-venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, and where the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Interests in joint-ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
2.2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The Group applied for the first time certain standards and amendments, which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The Group has not early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The nature and the effect of these changes are disclosed below.
Although these new standards and amendments applied for the first time in 2015, they did not have a material impact on the annual consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The nature and the impact of each new standard or amendment are described below: Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IAS 19 requires an entity to consider contributions from employees or third parties when accounting for defined benefit plans.
Where the contributions are linked to service, they should be attributed to periods of service as a negative benefit.
These amendments clarify that, if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service, an entity is permitted to recognise such contributions as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is rendered, instead of allocating the contributions to the periods of service.
This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The quantitative impact of the change is negligible.
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle With the exception of the improvement relating to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applied to share-based payment transactions with a grant date on or after 1 July 2014, all other improvements are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The Group has applied these improvements for the first time in these consolidated financial statements.
They include: i IFRS 2 Share-based Payment This improvement is applied prospectively and clarifies various issues relating to the definitions of performance and service conditions which are vesting conditions.
The clarifications are consistent with how the Group has identified any performance and service conditions which are vesting conditions in previous periods.
Thus, these amendments did not impact the Groups financial statements or accounting policies.
ii IFRS 3 Business Combinations The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that all contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities or assets arising from a business combination should be subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss whether or not they fall within the scope of IAS 39.
There have been no change in contingent considerations, thus, this amendment did not impact the Groups financial statements.
The accounting policy has been changed accordingly.
iii IFRS 8 Operating Segments The amendments are applied retrospectively and clarify that: An entity must disclose the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12 of IFRS 8, including a brief description of operating segments that have been aggregated and the economic characteristics e. g. sales and gross margins used to assess whether the segments are similar: and The reconciliation of segment assets to total assets is only required to be disclosed if the reconciliation is reported to the chief operating decision maker, similar to the required disclosure for segment liabilities.
The Group has not applied the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8.12.
The Group has presented the reconciliation of segment assets to total assets in previous periods and continues to disclose the same in Note 5 in this periods financial statements as the reconciliation is reported to the chief operating decision maker for the purpose of their decision making.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 81 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies Except for the changes explained in Note 2.2, the Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and identifiable net asset acquired are measured at the acquisition date fair value.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at that date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, will be recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and is allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued B Foreign currency The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
i Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
C Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financial and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value: any directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 83 D Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the above policy, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
E Property, plant and equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP were measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004 being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS.
ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Software up to 8 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, were stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
F Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income, are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium The Group makes and receives initial payments on entering into both long and short leases of land and buildings.
Where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating leases.
On the statement of financial position, finance lease payment attributable to the land is recorded as property, plant and equipment and for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase or lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
G Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 85 Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
H Investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
In limited circumstances, the determination of fair value is uncertain, and these properties are carried at cost.
Impairment analysis over these properties is carried out annually.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
I Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
They are held for sale in the short term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
Borrowing costs payable on loans funding a development property are also capitalised, on a specific identification basis, as part of the cost of the development property until the completion of development.
Payments received from purchasers arising from pre-sales of the property units prior to the completion are included as deferred income under other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued M Income tax Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
N Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
The Group recognises remeasurement gains and losses within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liabilities asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 87 iv Share-based payment transactions The share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in Note 23.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in Note 11.
O Provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Further details on provisions are given in Note 24.
P Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: Income from property rental recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Development property sales recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is usually when legal title transfers depending on jurisdictions.
The trigger for revenue recognition depends on the laws within each jurisdiction.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Q Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
R Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
The segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in Note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COOs.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the reportable operating segments.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
S Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
T Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less any impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
U Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements Management has discussed with the Audit & Risk Committee the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 89 Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in the following areas, of which the most significant are listed first: Asset carrying values Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of assets across the Group where risk of impairment has been identified.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and investment properties, investment in and loans to joint ventures and associates, and development properties.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on future cash flows being receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Where risk of impairment has been identified an impairment review has been performed on property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments and investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates held across the Group on a cash generating basis.
Where appropriate, external evaluations are also undertaken.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and appropriate growth rates.
The discount rates used reflect appropriate sensitivities involved in the assessment.
Discount rates used for impaired properties and investment properties are disclosed in Notes 12 and 14.
Investment properties The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.3H.
The Group owns hotel assets which are leased to external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such hotel assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.3H.
Where the indicators are such that on balance the Group is shown to be a passive investor, the relevant property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for the fair value change through the income statement as other operating income or expense.
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a majority of voting rights fide facto control In 2014, the new consolidation accounting standard, IFRS 10 introduced a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
This required the Group to consider whether it has fide facto control over its investees, particularly when it owned less than 50% of the voting rights.
In 2014, in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, the Group reassessed the control conclusion for its investees and changed its control conclusion in respect of its investment in CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, which was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method.
Although the Group owns less than half of the voting power of the investee, management determined that, under IFRS 10, the Group has had control over the investee since its inception.
This is because a 100% owned subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited acts as REIT Manager with its fees having a performance-based element and therefore the Group has exposure to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
Accordingly, in 2014, the Group applied acquisition accounting to the investment from the year it was first established in 2006, and restated the relevant amounts as if the investee had been consolidated from that year.
This judgement was reconsidered this year and continues to be appropriate.
Business combination For each acquisition, the Group has to make a judgement whether to account the transaction as an asset purchase or a business combination, which results in a different accounting treatment.
In particular, under business combination accounting, goodwill and additional intangible assets may arise and the valuation of acquired assets is complex.
In addition, transaction costs can be capitalised in an asset acquisition, but have to be charged through the income statement for a business combination.
The classification of each acquisition and related accounting is highly judgemental.
Taxation The tax charge for the year is recognised in the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income, according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
The tax charge comprises both current and deferred tax.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement, particularly when tax treatment for certain items cannot be determined until a final resolution.
In addition, recognition of deferred tax assets is judgemental as it depends on expected timing and level of future taxable income.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
Land leases classification The Group holds a number of hotels with leases of land that are determined to have an indefinite economic life.
These are classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
In determining whether the lease of land should be accounted for as a finance or an operating lease, the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report Financial performance on pages 20 to 25 and in the key performance indicators on page 19.
In addition, Note 22 of the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and plans for refinancing maturing facilities are under way.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the signing of this annual report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in Note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management is required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight has been afforded to macro economic factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in Note 23.
Measurement of fair values A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non financial liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
Management reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuations adjustments.
If third party information is used to measure fair values, then management assesses the evidence obtained from third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS, including the level in their fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified.
Significant valuation issues are reported to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 91 When measuring fair values, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible.
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuations techniques as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices Ied in Level 1 that are observable for an asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values is included in Note 14 Investment Properties and Note 23 Employee Benefits.
4 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB, become effective after the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS IFRIC Effective date IAS 1 Amendments: Presentation of the Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The Group is assessing the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from implementation of these standards.
5 Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net financial expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Geographical segments The hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas as follows: New York Regional US London Rest of Europe including the Middle East Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia The segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
The reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and who maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The results of CDLHT have been incorporated within the existing geographical regions.
In addition, CDLHT operations are reviewed separately by its board on a monthly basis.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Segment results 2015 Regional Rest of Rest Central Total New York US London Europe Singapore of Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 138 118 124 75 122 148 40 765 Property operations 3 2 7 23 35 REIT 3 12 20 12 47 Total revenue 138 121 124 78 136 175 75 847 Hotel gross operating profit 33 25 63 20 54 49 17 261 1 Hotel fixed charges 27 18 20 10 3 33 6 117 Hotel operating profit 6 7 43 10 51 16 11 144 Property operating profit loss 1 1 6 11 17 REIT operating profit loss 1 3 7 12 15 Central costs 21 21 2 Other operating income 32 32 2 Other operating expense 23 1 15 1 37 1 78 2 Other operating income REIT 1 8 9 2 Other operating expense REIT 4 2 6 Operating profit loss 17 5 43 6 49 20 39 21 112 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 1 16 17 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 7 9 6 4 11 21 2 1 61 3 EBITDA 10 14 49 1 60 57 41 20 190 Less: Depreciation and amortisation 61 Net finance expense 20 Profit before tax 109 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 See Note 7 for details of other operating income and expense.
3 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 93 2014 Regional Rest of Rest of Central Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 123 106 125 71 131 152 42 750 Property operations 2 9 1 24 36 REIT 11 16 13 40 Total revenue 123 108 125 71 151 169 79 826 Hotel gross operating profit 35 21 64 18 62 53 17 270 1 Hotel fixed charges 22 16 19 11 2 28 4 102 Hotel operating profit 13 5 45 7 60 25 13 168 Property operating profit loss 1 8 8 15 REIT operating profit loss 3 6 13 16 Central costs 31 31 2 Other operating income 3 16 19 2 Other operating income REIT 5 1 2 8 Operating profit loss 13 4 45 7 73 48 36 31 195 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 10 10 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 6 7 5 3 11 17 2 1 52 3 EBITDA 19 11 50 10 84 75 38 30 257 Less: Depreciation and amortisation 52 Net finance expense 17 Profit before tax 188 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
Segmental assets and liabilities 2015 Regional Rest of Rest of Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 540 293 490 248 17 602 138 2,328 REIT operating assets 62 528 127 158 875 Hotel operating liabilities 24 31 19 27 19 63 7 190 REIT operating liabilities 2 11 2 2 17 Investment in joint ventures and associates 112 112 Total hotel operating net assets 516 262 471 281 515 776 287 3,108 Property operating assets 33 75 135 81 324 Property operating liabilities 1 7 3 4 15 Investment in joint ventures and associates 143 143 Total property operating net assets 32 68 275 77 452 Deferred tax liabilities 210 Income taxes payable 33 Net debt 605 Net assets 2,712 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2014 Regional Rest of Rest of Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 542 279 502 242 18 654 147 2,384 REIT operating assets 539 128 162 829 Hotel operating liabilities 34 22 34 19 21 59 8 197 REIT operating liabilities 15 3 2 20 Investment in joint ventures and associates 96 96 Total hotel operating net assets 508 257 468 223 521 816 299 3,092 Property operating assets 31 97 102 74 304 Property operating liabilities 1 8 6 4 19 Investment in joint ventures and associates 139 139 Total property operating net assets 30 89 235 70 424 Deferred tax liabilities 221 Income taxes payable 35 Net debt 525 Net assets 2,735 Geographic information 2015 2014 m m Revenue from external customers United States 259 231 United Kingdom 175 171 Singapore 136 151 New Zealand 66 69 Taiwan 55 50 South Korea 40 46 China 24 23 Maldives 15 16 Malaysia 14 16 France 12 14 Australia 9 9 Philippines 6 6 Indonesia 5 6 Germany 0 5 Other 31 13 Total revenue per consolidated income statement 847 826 The revenue information above is based on the location of the business.
The 847m 2014: 826m revenue is constituted of 765m 2014: 750m of hotel revenue, 35m 2014: 36m of property operations revenue and 47m 2014: 40m of REIT revenue.
The property operations revenue comprises 23m 2014: 24m from New Zealand, 2m 2014: 9m from Singapore and 10m 2014: 3m from other countries.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 95 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets United States 849 830 United Kingdom 693 630 Singapore 610 626 Taiwan 238 258 China 257 251 New Zealand 185 190 South Korea 176 175 Japan 166 131 Australia 101 109 Maldives 90 92 Hong Kong 89 79 Malaysia 55 64 Italy 52 56 France 34 37 Philippines 12 31 Indonesia 11 11 Others including Middle East 1 Total non-current assets per consolidated statement of financial position 3,619 3,570 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayment, investment properties, investment in joint ventures and associates, loans due from associate and other financial assets.
6 Administrative expenses The following items are included within administrative expenses: 2015 2014 m m Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, for audit and non-audit services as follows: Auditors remuneration Statutory audit services: Annual audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Audit of subsidiary companies 1 1 2 2 Non-audit related services: Tax advisory 1 1 Total 3 3 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2015 2014 m m Repairs and maintenance 41 39 Depreciation 59 50 Lease premium amortisation 2 2 Rental paid payable under operating leases land and buildings 1 3 plant and machinery 4 4 7 Other operating income and expense 2015 2014 Notes m m Other operating income Revaluation gain of investment properties a REIT properties 9 10 Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo 32 16 Tanglin Shopping Centre 3 41 29 Other operating expense Revaluation deficit of investment properties a REIT properties 6 2 Tanglin Shopping Centre 1 Biltmore Court & Tower 1 Impairment of property, plant & equipment b 76 84 2 a Revaluation gain deficit of investment properties At the end of the financial year, in accordance with the Groups policy its investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open-market existing use basis.
Based on these valuations, the revaluation gain or deficit was recorded as considered appropriate by the Directors.
b Impairment The Directors undertook their annual review of the carrying value of hotels and property assets for indication of impairment and where appropriate, external valuations were also obtained.
As a result of this review, the total impairment charge was 76m consisting of 23m in New York, 15m in Rest of Europe, 37m in Rest of Asia and 1m for NZ.
No impairment charge was made in 2014.
Further information is given in Note 12.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 97 8 Personnel expenses 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 291 278 Compulsory social security contributions 42 37 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 12 11 Defined benefit pension cost gain recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 2 3 Defined benefit pension cost recorded in the income statement 2 2 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 2 351 325 The average number of employees employed by the Group including Directors during the year analysed by category was as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number Hotel operating staff 8,399 7,954 Management administration 1,385 1,253 Sales and marketing 466 464 Repairs and maintenance 620 586 10,870 10,257 Directors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Remuneration 2 2 Received by the Directors under: long-term incentive schemes Pensions 2 2 9 Net finance expense 2015 2014 m m Interest income 3 4 Interest receivable from joint ventures and associates 1 1 Foreign exchange gain 1 2 Finance income 5 7 Interest expense 20 22 Foreign exchange loss 5 2 Finance expense 25 24 Net finance expense 20 17 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense 2015 2014 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge for the year 26 27 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 Total current tax expense 26 31 Deferred tax Note 26 Origination and reversal of timing differences 9 5 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 2 3 Benefits of tax losses recognised 5 1 Over provision in respect of prior years 1 1 Total deferred tax expense credit 14 6 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 12 37 UK 7 10 Overseas 5 27 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 12 37 For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group recorded a tax expense of 12m 2014: 37m excluding the tax relating to joint ventures and associates, giving rise to an effective tax rate of 12.9% 2014: 20.7%.
The effective tax rate has been affected by a number of factors which include the following items: Other income and expense of the Group: Reduced tax rates applied to brought forward net deferred tax liabilities in the UK: and Tax adjustments in respect of previous years.
Excluding the impact of the items noted above, the Groups underlying effective tax rate is 18.4% 2014: 17.2%.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, a charge of 6m 2014: 6m relating to joint ventures and associates is included in the profit before tax.
Adjustments in respect of settlement of prior years tax liabilities The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 99 Income tax reconciliation 2015 2014 m m Profit before income tax in consolidated income statement 109 188 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 17 10 Profit on ordinary activities excluding share of joint ventures and associates 92 178 Income tax on ordinary activities at the standard rate of UK tax of 20.25% 2014: 21.49% 19 38 Tax exempt income 21 21 Non-deductible expenses 11 11 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 2 Effect of tax rates on other operating income and expense 1 Other effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 3 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 2 3 Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 2 3 Income tax expense per consolidated income statement 12 37 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated using the following information: 2015 2014 a Basic Profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 65 110 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 325 324 Basic earnings per share pence 19.9p 34.0p b Diluted Profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 65 110 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 325 324 Potentially dilutive share options under the Groups share option schemes m 1 1 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 326 325 Diluted earnings per share pence 19.8p 33.9p Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land Capital fittings and and work in Plant and equipment buildings progress machinery and vehicles Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2014 2,411 25 216 226 2,878 Additions Acquisitions 271 7 15 293 Additions Others 41 20 19 19 99 Transfers 8 21 2 8 3 Disposals 2 2 Written off 10 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 42 5 5 52 Balance at 31 December 2014 2,773 24 249 261 3,307 Balance at 1 January 2015 2,773 24 249 261 3,307 Additions Acquisitions 66 9 75 Additions Others 7 29 15 20 71 Transfers 10 2 8 Disposals 2 1 3 6 Written off 1 4 5 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 4 1 3 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2015 2,847 42 258 289 3,436 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 January 2014 267 1 70 170 508 Charge for the year 15 11 24 50 Disposals 2 2 Written off 10 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 4 2 2 8 Balance at 31 December 2014 286 1 83 184 554 Balance at 1 January 2015 286 1 83 184 554 Acquisition of subsidiaries Charge for the year 17 15 27 59 Impairment 76 76 Disposals 2 1 2 5 Written off 4 4 8 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2015 378 1 92 201 672 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2015 2,469 41 166 88 2,764 At 31 December 2014 2,487 23 166 77 2,753 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2015 was 9m 2014: 6m.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 101 a Impairment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are individual hotels.
The carrying value of individual hotels was compared to the recoverable amount of the hotels, which was predominantly based on value-inuse.
For 2015, where indicators of impairment were present, the Group estimated value-in-use through creation of discounted cash flow models, based on future trading performance expected by management.
The underlying basis for the impairment model involves each hotels projected cash flow for the financial year ending 31 December 2016, extrapolated to incorporate individual assumptions in respect of revenue growth principally factoring in room rate and occupancy growth and major expense lines.
The future cash flows are based on assumptions about competitive growth rates for hotels in that area, as well as internal business plans.
These plans and forecasts include managements most recent view of trading prospects for the hotel in the relevant market.
The forecasts cover a five to ten year period, and cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a growth rate ranging between 2% and 3%, which is based upon the expected trading growth for each hotel and inflation in the country.
Where appropriate, the Directors sought guidance on value from a registered independent appraiser with an appropriately recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the hotel being valued.
On the basis of external valuations in 2015, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 76m consisting of 23m in relation to a New York hotel, 15m for three hotels in Rest of Europe, 37m for two hotels in Rest of Asia and 1m for a hotel in New Zealand.
This reflected the challenging trading conditions in those regions.
Circumstances and events that led to the impairment are disclosed in the Financial Performance review in the Strategic Report.
b Key assumptions used by the external appraisers The key assumptions used were as follows: Pre-tax discount rate The discount rate is based on the country in which the hotel is located and is adjusted for risks associated with the hotel.
Discount rates ranged from 8% to 10% in the US, 7% to 12% in Europe and 6% to 9% in Asia.
Occupancy rate The occupancy growth rates ranged from 0% to 2% in the US, 0% to 8% in Europe and 0% to 3% in Asia.
Average room rate The average room rate growth ranged from 3% to 5% in the US, 0% to 8% in Europe and 0% to 7% in Asia.
c Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and revenue growth assumptions.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single factor could result in impairment in certain hotels in London, Regional UK, Regional US, Asia and Australasia as their fair value currently exceeds their carrying value only by a small percentage.
d Land and buildings Land and buildings includes long leasehold building assets with a book value of 606m 2014: 595m.
The net book value of land and buildings held under short leases was 96m 2014: 100m, in respect of which depreciation of 2m 2014: 2m was charged during the year.
No interest was capitalised within land and buildings during the year 2014: nil.
The cumulative capitalised interest within land and buildings is 5m 2014: 5m.
e Pledged assets At year-end, the net book value of assets pledged as collateral for secured loans was 263m 2014: 283m.
The security for the loans is by way of charges on the properties of the Group companies concerned.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued f Business combination Acquisition in 2015 Acquisition of a subsidiary CDL HBT Cambridge City Hotel UK Ltd On 1 October 2015, the Group through its investment in CDLHT acquired 100% of the shares and voting interests in CDL HBT Cambridge City Hotel UK Ltd CCH the Acquisition.
CDLHT acquired CCH in relation to the acquisition of the Cambridge City Hotel in Cambridge the Property.
The Acquisition marks CDLHTs first investment in Europe.
In the three months to 31 December 2015, CCH contributed gross revenue of 3m and net income before tax of 1m to the Groups results.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015, management estimates that the Groups gross revenue would have been 11m and the Groups net income before tax for the year would have been 3m.
In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015.
Consideration transferred m Total consideration for 100% equity interest acquired 62 Acquisition costs 1 Less: Cash at bank of subsidiary acquired 2 Net cash outflow on acquisition 61 Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of 1m on legal fees and due diligence costs.
Identifiable assets and liabilities assumed The following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
m Property, plant and equipment 61 Trade and other receivables 1 Cash at bank 2 Trade and other payables 2 Total identifiable net assets 62 Measurement of fair values The valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of material assets acquired were as follows: Assets acquired Valuation techniques Property, plant and equipment Market comparison technique and Discounted cash flow technique: The Market comparison valuation model considers quoted market prices for similar items when they are available.
The Discounted cash flow valuation model is based upon a ten year forecast of the Propertys potential trading performance, having built into the calculations any capital expenditure required for the hotel together with a Fixtures, Fittings & Equipment Reserve, based upon an appropriate percentage of the forecast turnover.
If new information obtained within one year from the date of acquisition about facts and circumstances that existed at the date of acquisition identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the date of acquisition, then the accounting acquisition will be revised.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 103 Acquisitions in 2014 Novotel New York Times Square On 12 June 2014, the Group acquired Novotel New York Times Square for a purchase price of US$274m 161m.
The purchase price consisted of property, plant & equipment, which was included in the Groups New York geographical segment in 2014.
There was no change in the fair value asset allocation since the provisional assessment as at 31 December 2014.
MyStays hotels in Japan In addition, on 19 December 2014, the Group acquired two hotels in Japan, as well as all the outstanding shares of capital stock of a company that operates them.
There was no change in the fair value asset allocation since the provisional assessment as at 31 December 2014 and the purchase price was fully allocated to property, plant & equipment on the Groups balance sheet.
g Other acquisitions Other acquisition in 2015 Hard Days Night Hotel in Liverpool On 19 August 2015, the Group acquired a long leasehold interest in a hotel property located in Liverpool for a total consideration of 14m.
The total acquisition cost was capitalised as property, plant & equipment within the Groups existing hotels portfolio.
The purchase price has been fully allocated to property, plant & equipment on the Groups balance sheet.
Other acquisitions in 2014 The Chelsea Harbour Hotel On 25 March 2014, the Group acquired the leasehold interest in a hotel property located within the Chelsea Harbour district in London for a purchase price of 65m.
Grand Hotel Palace Rome In addition, on 9 October 2014, the Group completed the purchase of its first hotel in Italy, for 66m 51m.
In conjunction with the acquisition, the Group entered into a holdback escrow agreement with the seller.
Pursuant to the holdback escrow agreement, approximately 6m 5m from the purchase price was withheld and placed into an escrow.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Lease premium prepayment 2015 m Cost Balance at 1 January 2015 113 Foreign exchange adjustments 2 Balance at 31 December 2015 111 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2015 13 Charge for the year 2 Balance at 31 December 2015 15 Carrying amount 96 Analysed between: Amount due after more than one year included in non-current assets 94 Amount due within one year included in current assets 2 96 14 Investment properties Completed investment properties comprise Tanglin Shopping Centre, Biltmore Court & Tower, CDLHT properties and Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo.
Investment properties under construction represents the land site at Sunnyvale.
Movements in the year analysed as: Investment Completed properties investment under properties construction Total m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 345 69 414 Transfers 63 63 Movements 42 42 Adjustment to fair value 27 27 Foreign exchange adjustment 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2014 473 6 479 Balance at 1 January 2015 473 6 479 Transfers Movements 1 1 Adjustment to fair value 33 33 Foreign exchange adjustment 6 1 5 Balance at 31 December 2015 499 7 506 In general, the carrying amount of investment property other than those under construction is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
Only the land site at Sunnyvale, California, is classified as investment properties under construction at 31 December 2015 as the project of building a hotel and an apartment complex is still in progress.
This asset is carried at cost on the balance sheet.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 105 At the end of 2015, the Groups investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis by the following accredited independent valuers: Properties Valuers Tanglin Shopping Centre, Singapore DTZ DebenhamTie Leung SEA Pte Ltd Biltmore Court & Tower, Los Angeles Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Land site at Sunnyvale, California Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo Jones Lang LaSalle KK CDLHT Singapore property Knight Frank Pte Ltd CDLHT Australia properties CBRE Valuations Pty Limited CDLHT Maldives property Jones Lang LaSalle Property Consultants Pte Ltd CDLHT New Zealand property CB Richard Ellis Pte Ltd Based on these valuations together with such considerations as the Directors consider appropriate, Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo recorded an uplift in value of 32m 2014: 16m and Tanglin Shopping Centre and Biltmore Court & Tower a revaluation loss of respectively 1m 2014: gain of 3m and 1m 2014: nil.
In addition, the REIT properties recorded a net revaluation gain of 3m 2014: gain of 8m.
All the other investment properties recorded no change and no impairment was identified.
Fair value hierarchy The fair value measurement for investment properties not under construction of 499m 2014: 473m has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on inputs to the valuation technique used.
Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs The following table shows the valuation technique used in measuring the fair value of investment property, as well as significant unobservable inputs used.
Inter-relationship between key unobservable inputs and Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs fair value measurement The technique applied in the valuation of the Tanglin Tanglin Shopping Centre The estimated fair value would increase Shopping Centre is based on market comparison Open market values for other properties.
decrease if: of sales of similar properties in the vicinity.
Further adjustments are made to this value to account for Biltmore Court & Tower Expected market rental growth were higher lower : differences in location, size, tenure, view, accessibility, Discount rate of between 8% to 10% and capitalisation and condition and other factors.
Risk adjusted discount rate was lower higher, Biltmore Court & Tower and Millennium Mitsui Garden Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo capitalisation rate was higher lower and terminal Hotel Tokyo were valued using a discounted cash flow Discount rate of between 4% and 5% and yield was lower higher.
technique based on expected rental income capitalisation rate of 4% to 5%.
and discount rate appropriate for the property.
CDLHT investment properties Investment properties held by the REIT were valued Discount rate of between 11% and 14%, capitalisation using the discounted cash flow, capitalisation or rate of around 8% and terminal yield of 8% to 9%.
Further details in respect of investment property rentals are given in Note 31.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates: Fair value of ownership Effective Group interest Principal place interest of business m 2015 2014 Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited New Unity Hong Kong 50% 50% Fena Estate Company Limited Fena Thailand 50% 50% Associate First Sponsor Group Limited First Sponsor Peoples Republic of China 126 36% 36% The Group has 50% interest in both New Unity and Fena which operate the Groups hotel business in Hong Kong and Bangkok respectively.
First Sponsor is a property company which is listed on the Singapore Exchange and has interests in China and the Netherlands.
It is also involved in the Chinese property financing business which carries additional risk of recoverability of certain assets.
Joint Total ventures Associates m Share of net assets cost Balance at 1 January 2014 68 135 203 Share of profit for the year 6 4 10 Additions 44 44 Restructuring 28 28 Foreign exchange adjustments 5 2 7 Other movements 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2014 79 156 235 Balance at 1 January 2015 79 156 235 Share of profit for the year 6 11 17 Foreign exchange adjustments 4 4 Other movements 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2015 89 166 255 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 107 The following is summarised financial information for First Sponsor and New Unity based on their respective financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The investment in Fena is not material to Groups financial statements.
First Sponsor New Unity 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current assets 347 161 325 315 Current assets 512 469 53 53 Non-current liabilities 131 46 107 123 Current liabilities 260 146 23 28 Total assets less total liabilities 468 438 248 217 Less: Non-controlling interest 2 71 59 Net assets 100% 466 438 177 158 Groups share 167 156 89 79 Revenue 102 73 106 100 Operating profit 43 14 24 26 Interest income 0 6 0 1 Income tax expense 11 9 4 4 Profit for the year 32 11 20 21 Non-controlling interests 9 8 Profit for the year after non-controlling interests 32 11 11 13 Other comprehensive income 10 12 Profit and total comprehensive income 100% 42 23 11 13 Groups share of profit and total comprehensive income 15 8 6 7 Dividends received by the Group At 31 December 2015, the Groups share of the total capital commitments of joint ventures and associates amounted to 27m 2014: 20m.
At 31 December 2015, the Groups joint ventures and associates had no contingent liabilities 2014: nil.
16 Other financial assets 2015 2014 m m Other financial assets included within non-current assets comprise: Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 17 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Consumables 4 4 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Development properties 2015 2014 m m Development properties comprise: Development land for resale New Zealand landbank 58 49 Development properties Zenith Residences 23 23 81 72 19 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 35 50 Other receivables 23 24 Prepayments and accrued income 18 30 76 104 Trade receivables are shown net of an impairment allowance of 2m 2014: 2m relating to the likely insolvencies of certain customers and non-recoverability of debts.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 22.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 235 228 Short-term deposits 118 289 Cash pool overdrafts 115 125 Cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position 238 392 Overdrafts included in borrowings 4 Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement 238 388 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets are disclosed in Note 22.
As at 31 December 2015, 5m 2014: 5m of the cash balance was restricted.
This forms part of the consideration for the acquisition of a hotel in Rome in 2014 Note 12.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 109 21 Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Included within non-current liabilities: Bank loans 466 323 Bonds payable 199 195 665 518 Included within current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 104 370 Bonds payable 74 29 178 399 Further details in respect of financial liabilities are given in Note 22.
22 Financial instruments Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
a Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, with credit checks performed on all clients requiring credit over certain amounts.
Credit is not extended beyond authorised limits, established where appropriate through consultation with a professional credit vetting organisation.
Credit granted is subject to regular review, to ensure it remains consistent with the clients current creditworthiness and appropriate to the anticipated volume of business.
Investments are allowed only in liquid short-term instruments within approved limits, with investment counterparties approved by the Board, such that the exposure to a single counterparty is minimised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset on the balance sheet, these being spread across the various currencies and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand see Note 20 235 228 Short-term deposits see Note 20 118 289 Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale see Note 16 5 Trade receivables see Note 19 35 50 Other receivables see Note 19 23 24 411 596 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying value 2015 2014 m m New York 5 7 Regional US 3 7 Rest of Europe 7 5 Singapore 7 20 Rest of Asia 10 7 Australasia 3 4 35 50 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross receivable Impairment allowance Carrying value 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Not past due 22 39 22 39 Past due 0 30 days 4 6 4 6 Past due 31 60 days 3 3 3 3 Past due 61 90 days 2 1 2 1 More than 90 days 6 3 2 2 4 1 37 52 2 2 35 50 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 m m Balance at 1 January 2 2 Impairment recognised Balance at 31 December 2 2 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 111 Contractual maturities of financial assets 2015 6 months 6 months 1 - 5 More than Total or less - 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate US dollar 14 14 Korean Won 2 2 Singapore dollar 37 37 New Taiwan dollar 8 8 Australian dollar 7 7 New Zealand dollar 36 36 Malaysian Ringgit 11 11 Euro 11 11 Chinese Renminbi 15 15 Non Interest Bearing Sterling 39 39 US dollar 36 36 Singapore dollar 21 21 Malaysian Ringgit 1 1 Euro 4 4 Japanese 12 12 Other 8 8 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 91 91 Total cash and other financial assets 353 353 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 33 33 Euro 5 5 Japanese Yen 13 13 Hong Kong dollar 28 28 Non Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 28 28 Japanese Yen 8 8 Total overdrafts Note 20 115 115 238 238 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 238 238 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Contractual maturities of financial assets 2014 6 months 6 months 1 - 5 More than Total or less - 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate Sterling 4 4 US dollar 22 22 Korean Won 7 7 Singapore dollar 175 175 New Taiwan dollar 6 6 Australian dollar 12 12 New Zealand dollar 47 47 Malaysian Ringgit 16 16 Euro 7 7 Others 16 16 Non Interest Bearing Sterling 23 23 US dollar 30 25 5 Korean Won Singapore dollar 25 25 Malaysian Ringgit 1 1 Euro 4 4 Others 16 16 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 111 111 Total cash and other financial assets 522 517 5 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 44 44 US dollar 2 2 Euro 12 12 Japanese Yen 20 20 Hong Kong dollar 30 30 Non Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 17 17 Total overdrafts Note 20 125 125 397 392 5 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 392 Other financial assets non current Note 16 5 397 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 113 b Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments using the interest rates prevailing as at the reporting date.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2015 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 67 74 3 3 38 30 Unsecured loans 313 322 22 83 64 153 Secured bonds 16 16 16 Unsecured bonds 140 144 35 40 1 68 Fixed rate financial liabilities Secure bonds 60 61 61 Unsecured loans 190 213 3 3 6 201 Unsecured bonds 57 60 1 1 58 Trade and other payables Trade payables 22 22 20 2 Other creditors 31 31 31 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 12 12 3 9 908 955 114 132 110 590 9 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 67 72 2 2 5 63 Unsecured loans 526 540 56 265 57 162 Unsecured bonds 166 171 30 1 74 66 Bank overdrafts 3 4 4 Fixed rate financial liabilities Unsecured loans 97 105 2 51 1 51 Unsecured bonds 58 63 1 1 61 Trade and other payables Trade payables 23 23 19 4 Other creditors 16 16 16 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 11 11 1 2 8 967 1,005 129 324 139 405 8 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Undrawn committed borrowing facilities At 31 December 2015, the Group had 406m 2014: 255m of undrawn and committed facilities available, comprising committed revolving credit facilities which provide the Group with financial flexibility.
Maturities of these facilities are set out in the following table.
The conditions precedent to the availability of these facilities are all satisfied at the balance sheet date.
2015 2014 m 3m Expiring in one year or less 128 169 Expiring after more than one year but not more than two years 112 16 Expiring after more than two years but not more than five years 166 70 Expiring after more than five years Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities 406 255 Security Included within the Groups total bank loans and overdrafts of 570m 2014: 693m are 67m 2014: 70m of secured loans and overdrafts.
Total bonds and notes payable of 197m 2014: 224m are unsecured.
Loans, bonds and notes are secured on land and buildings with a carrying value of 263m 2014: 283m and an assignment of insurance proceeds in respect of insurances over the mortgaged properties.
Of the Groups total facilities of 1,297m, 351m matures within 12 months comprising 73m unsecured bonds and notes, 67m committed revolving credit facilities, 45m uncommitted facilities and overdrafts subject to annual renewal, 163m unsecured term loans and 3m secured term loans.
Plans for refinancing the facilities are underway.
c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The primary objectives of the treasury function are to provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the Group and to identify and manage financial risks, including exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates arising from those activities.
If appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks, as set out below.
i Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on revenue, purchases, borrowings and cash deposits denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Singapore dollars, New Zealand dollars, New Taiwan dollars, Korean won, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen and Euro.
The Groups principal policy, wherever possible, is to maintain a natural hedge whereby liabilities are matched with assets denominated in the same currency.
Foreign currency investment exposure is also minimised by borrowing in the currency of the investment.
To mitigate foreign currency translation exposure, an appropriate proportion of net assets are designated as hedged against corresponding financial liabilities in the same currency.
Net investment hedging The Group has US$167m 2014: US$429m US dollar loans and overdrafts, 61m 2014: 61m Euro loans and overdrafts, and JPY3,704m 2014: JPY3,704m Japanese yen overdrafts designated as hedges of corresponding respective proportions of its net investment in foreign operations whose functional currencies are US dollars, Euros and Japanese yen.
The risk being hedged is the foreign currency exposure on the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation upon consolidation.
The fair value of the hedging instruments as at 31 December 2015 was 178m 2014: 343m.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 115 There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the consolidated income statement that arose from hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
An analysis of borrowings by currency and their fair values as at 31 December is given below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Sterling 64 64 Singapore dollar 199 199 204 204 Australia dollar 46 46 49 49 US dollar 303 303 438 438 New Zealand dollar 34 34 34 34 Chinese renminbi 33 33 36 36 Japanese yen 94 94 89 89 New Taiwan dollar 10 10 10 10 Korean Won 20 20 21 21 Euro 40 40 36 36 843 843 917 917 Exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans during each accounting period are recognised as a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The foreign exchange exposure arising on the Groups net investment in its subsidiaries is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the exposure arising on the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
Foreign currency transaction exposure is primarily managed through funding of purchases from operating income streams arising in the same currency.
Hedging of transaction exposure is undertaken with approved counterparties and within designated limits, using spot or short-term forward contracts to buy or sell the currency concerned, once the timing and the underlying amount of exposure have been determined.
Foreign exchange derivatives may also be used to hedge specific transaction exposure where appropriate.
There are no foreign exchange derivatives in place at 31 December 2015.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 US dollar 1.532 1.645 1.490 1.556 Singapore dollar 2.101 2.087 2.103 2.059 New Taiwan dollar 48.623 49.938 48.923 49.419 New Zealand dollar 2.176 1.990 2.167 2.001 Malaysian ringgit 5.934 5.391 6.403 5.442 Korean won 1,730.23 1,727.98 1,742.09 1,708.55 Chinese renminbi 9.640 10.138 9.668 9.684 Euro 1.375 1.240 1.358 1.278 Japanese yen 185.880 173.950 179.411 187.334 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Sensitivity analysis With respect to the Groups foreign currency exposure, and assuming that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, it is estimated that a 10% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 10% would have increased decreased equity and profit before tax by the amounts shown below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Profit Profit Equity before tax Equity before tax m m m m US dollar 28 1 6 1 Australian dollar 2 1 Singapore dollar 4 5 4 9 New Taiwan dollar 1 New Zealand dollar 5 2 2 Malaysian ringgit Korean won Euro 8 1 2 Chinese renminbi 3 3 Hong Kong dollar 1 2 Thai baht 2 Japanese Yen 3 3 2 Philippines peso 2 Other 1 33 7 2 16 A 10% weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 10% would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps The Group adopts a policy of ongoing review of its exposure to changes in interest rates on its borrowings, taking into account market expectations with regard to the perceived level of risk associated with each currency, the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt, and the extent to which debt may potentially be either prepaid prior to its maturity or refinanced at reduced cost.
The Groups policy is to maintain a mixture of its financial liabilities on a fixed and floating-rate basis with a greater emphasis on floating rates presently as this flexibility is considered to be appropriate in the context of the Groups overall geographical diversity, investment and business cycle and the stability of the income streams, cash balances and loan covenants.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings, and the Group actively monitors the need and timing for such derivatives.
Where used, interest rate derivatives are classified as cash flow hedges and stated at fair value within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
Further details of interest rate derivatives in place at 31 December 2015 are provided hereafter.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 117 Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Assuming that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant, a change of one percentage point in the average interest rates applicable to variable rate instruments for the year would have increased decreased the Groups profit before tax for the year as shown below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease m m m m Variable rate financial assets 2 2 3 3 Variable rate financial liabilities 9 9 8 8 Cash flow sensitivity net 7 7 5 5 d Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the fair and book values of all the Groups financial instruments by category.
Fair values are determined by reference to market values, where available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
2015 2015 2014 2014 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 235 235 228 228 Short-term deposits 118 118 289 289 Cash pool overdrafts 115 115 125 125 Available-for-sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 Loans and receivables Trade receivables 35 35 50 50 Other receivables 41 41 24 24 314 314 471 471 Financial liabilities Overdrafts and borrowings 843 843 917 917 Trade payables 22 22 23 23 Other creditors 31 31 16 16 Other non-current liabilities 12 12 11 11 908 908 967 967 Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps, bank valuations are used.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for similar lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates are used to discount cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Available-for-sale financial assets unquoted equity investments Fair value is estimated using appropriate valuation techniques.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 December 2015, the Group held certain financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Investment properties 499 499 499 499 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Investment properties 473 473 Available-for-sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 478 478 During the year ended 31 December 2015, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measures.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 119 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Companys objective for managing its capital is to ensure that Group entities will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders, as well as sustaining the future development of its business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may alter the total amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, draw down additional debt or reduce debt.
The Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the loans and borrowings disclosed in Note 21, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in Note 20 and the equity attributable to the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
One of the Groups subsidiaries, CDLHT which is a stapled group comprising CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT and CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT, a business trust, is required to maintain certain minimum base capital and financial resources.
H-REIT is subject to the aggregate leverage limit as defined in the Property Fund Appendix of the Code on Collective Investment Schemes CIS Code issued by Monetary Authority of Singapore.
The CIS Code stipulates that the total borrowings and deferred payments together the Aggregate Leverage of a property fund should not exceed 35.0% of its Deposited Property except that the Aggregate Leverage of a property fund may exceed 35.0% of its Deposited Property up to a maximum of 60.0% if a credit rating of the property fund from Fitch Inc. Moodys or Standard and Poors is obtained and disclosed to the public.
The property fund should continue to maintain and disclose a credit rating so long as its Aggregate Leverage exceeds 35.0% of its Deposited Property.
For this financial year, H-REIT has a credit rating of BBBfrom Fitch Inc.
The Aggregate Leverage of H-REIT as at 31 December 2015 was 36.4% 2014: 31.7% of H-REITs Deposited Property.
This complied with the aggregate leverage limit as described above.
HBT, H-REIT and CDLHT have complied with the borrowing limit requirements imposed by the relevant Trust Deeds and all externally imposed capital requirements for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Except for the above, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
23 Employee benefits Pension arrangements The Group operates various funded pension schemes which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The most significant funds are described below.
United Kingdom The pension arrangements in the United Kingdom operate under the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Plan, which was set up in 1993.
The plan operates a funded defined benefit arrangement together with a defined contribution plan, both with different categories of membership.
The defined benefit section of the plan was closed to new entrants in 2001 and at the same time rights to a guaranteed minimum pension GMP under the defined contribution scheme also ceased.
The plan entitles a retired employee to receive an annual pension payment.
The contributions required are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 5 April 2014 and this has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 December 2015.
The contributions of the Group during the year were 24% 2014: 24% of pensionable salary.
As the defined benefit section is closed to new entrants, the current service cost, as a percentage of pensionable payroll is likely to increase as the membership ages, although it will be applied to a decreasing pensionable payroll.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued South Korea The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in South Korea.
The contributions required are determined by an external qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 31 December 2015.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
Taiwan The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Taiwan.
The contributions of the Group were 6% 2014: 6% of the employees earnings.
The defined benefit plans are administered by pension funds that are legally separated from the Group.
The boards of the pension funds are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants.
These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The above plans are substantially funded by the Groups subsidiaries.
The funding requirements are based on the pension funds actuarial measurement framework set out in the funding policies of the plans.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and the liabilities have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2014 South 2014 UK Korea Taiwan UK Korea Taiwan Inflation rate 3.2% 3.0% 3.2% 3.0% Discount rate 3.6% 2.8% 1.6% 3.7% 2.8% 2.0% Rate of salary increase 3.7% 4.0% 3.0% 3.7% 5.0% 3.0% Rate of pension increases 3.2% 3.2% Rate of revaluation 2.2% 2.2% Annual expected return on plan assets 3.6% 2.8% 1.6% 3.7% 2.8% 2.0% The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The present values of the schemes liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are inherently uncertain.
The expected annual return on UK defined benefit plan assets for 2015 was 3.6% 2014: 3.7%.
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions consistent, would have altered the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below: Defined benefit obligation 2015 2015 2014 2014 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m Discount rate 1% movement 11 14 11 14 Rate of salary increase 1% movement 2 2 3 2 Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plans, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 121 Amounts recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 61 4 9 1 75 60 7 8 1 76 Fair value of plan assets 55 4 3 62 54 3 4 61 Plan deficit 6 6 1 13 6 4 4 1 15 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 60 7 8 1 76 55 4 9 1 69 Current service cost 1 1 2 1 1 2 Interest cost 2 2 2 2 Benefits paid, death in service insurance premiums and expenses 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 Remeasurement losses gains arising from: Financial assumptions 1 1 4 4 Demographic assumptions 1 1 Experience adjustment 1 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 2 2 2 2 Balance at 31 December 61 4 9 1 75 60 7 8 1 76 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 54 3 4 61 45 3 3 51 Interest income 2 2 2 2 Group contributions 4 4 2 1 3 Benefits paid 4 1 3 1 1 2 Remeasurement gains arising from: Return on plan assets excluding interest income 1 1 6 6 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 2 1 1 1 Balance at 31 December 55 4 3 62 54 3 4 61 Actual return on plan assets 1 1 7 7 The fair values of plan assets in each category are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Equities 8 8 21 21 Bonds 1 4 1 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 46 3 53 31 3 4 38 55 4 3 62 54 3 4 61 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The expense recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 1 1 2 1 1 2 Interest cost 2 2 2 2 Interest income 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 Total cost is recognised within the following items in the income statement: 2015 2014 m m Cost of sales 1 1 Administrative expenses 1 1 2 2 The gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 South 2015 2015 2015 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 1 1 6 6 Remeasurement losses gains arising from Financial assumptions 2 1 1 4 4 Demographic assumptions Experience adjustment 1 1 Defined benefit plan remeasurement gains losses 3 1 2 3 3 2015 2014 Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity are as follows: m m Cumulative as at 1 January 15 18 Remeasurement losses recognised during the year 2 3 Cumulative as at 31 December 17 15 Mortality rates used reflect an industry wide recognition that life expectancy has increased.
The life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the UK Plan, based on retirement age of 65, are as follows: 2015 2014 Years Years Males 24 25 Females 27 27 The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 2015 was 26 years 2014: 26.
The Group expects 0.8m in contributions to be paid to the defined benefit plans in 2016.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 123 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share option schemes, a majority being designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
Details of these schemes are given in the Remuneration Committee report.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy 2.3N iv on share-based payment transactions, the fair value of share options and longterm incentive awards is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and longterm incentive awards.
The charge to the income statement for the year was 2m 2014: nil.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 to its active employee share-based payment arrangements from 1 January 2005 except for arrangements granted before 7 November 2002. i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards under this scheme are awarded to Executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
Proceeds on exercise of options during the year Exercise Options Options Options Options Options Credited Credited price outstanding exercised expired forfeited outstanding to share to share per share as at during during during as at capital premium Date of grant of options 1 Jan 2015 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2015 m m Exercise period Part II Unapproved 24.03.2005 3.9842 10,581 10,581 24.03.2008 23.03.2015 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme Share options under this scheme are granted to UK based employees.
The options outstanding at the year-end have an exercise price in the range of 3.30 to 4.69 2014: 3.30 to 4.48 and a weighted average contractual life of 1.6 years 2014: 1.7 years.
Shares in Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc are transferred to participants at the end of three years if they continue to be employed by the group throughout that period.
The fair values for the deferred share awards were determined using the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
The weighted average share price for deferred share awards granted in 2015 was 5.51.
Awards Awards Awards awarded forfeited outstanding Credited Credited during the during the as at 31 Dec to share capital to share premium Vesting Date of Award year year 2015 m m date 08.09.2015 78,442 1,574 76,868 08.09.2018 06.11.2015 4,325 4,325 06.11.2018 82,767 1,574 81,193 The following awards were granted for the first time in the current year: Awards granted Share price prevailing on date of grant Fair value 2015 Awards Date of grant Directors Non-Directors Deferred share awards 08.09.2015 78,442 5.55 5.55 Deferred share awards 06.11.2015 4,325 4.76 4.76 Measurement of fair value The LTIP and Sharesave awards, which are subject to an EPS performance condition, were valued using the Black-Scholes valuation method.
The LTIP awards which are subject to a share price related performance condition i. e. TSR were valued using the Monte Carlo valuation method.
The option pricing model involves six variables: Exercise price Share price at grant Expected term Expected volatility of share price Risk-free interest rate Expected dividend yield Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Provisions Dilapidation Legal Beijing indemnity Total m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 1 5 7 13 Released utilised 1 3 4 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2015 2 8 10 Analysed as: Non-current provision 8 8 Current provision 2 2 Total provision 2 8 10 Provision for legal fees as at 31 December 2015 of 2m 2014: 5m relates to disputes in several hotels.
The Beijing indemnity of 8m 2014: 7m relate to the tax indemnity to the former shareholders of Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing in which the Group acquired an additional 40% interest in 2010.
During the year, a 1m dilapidation provision relating to the cost to be incurred on termination of a leasehold asset has been released.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2015 2014 m m Other liabilities 12 11 26 Deferred taxation Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting balances during the year are as follows: Charged credited to income statement Other At adjustment At 1 January Change in to opening Current year Charged to Exchange on 31 December 2015 tax rate provision movement reserves translation 2015 m m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 1 Property assets 246 2 5 10 4 243 246 2 5 10 4 243 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 16 2 5 2 25 2 Employee benefits 4 4 Others 5 1 2 4 25 3 3 2 33 Net deferred tax liabilities 221 2 2 13 2 210 1 Property assets comprise plant, property and equipment, lease premium prepayment and investment properties.
2 Employee benefits comprise defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payment arrangements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 127 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
2015 2014 m m Tax losses 1 Adjustments due to: Deductible temporary differences in respect of prior year 1 Tax losses in respect of prior year 13 12 13 14 The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
The tax losses are subject to agreement by the tax authorities and compliance with tax regulations in the respective countries in which certain subsidiaries operate.
The gross tax losses with expiry dates are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Expiry dates: within 1 to 5 years 6 11 after 5 years 4 no expiry date 59 62 69 73 At 31 December 2015, a deferred tax liability of 9m 2014: 10m relating to undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures of 662m 2014: 1,440m has not been recognised because the Group determined that the distributions will not be made and the liability will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
27 Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 22 23 Other creditors including taxation and social security: Social security and other taxes 9 5 Value added tax and similar sales taxes 12 14 Other creditors 31 16 Accruals 90 115 Deferred income 19 20 Rental and other deposits 4 4 187 197 The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risks related to trade and other payables are disclosed in Note 22.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Dividends 2015 2014 2015 2014 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend paid 11.51 11.51 37 37 Final special dividend paid 9.15 30 Interim ordinary dividend paid 2.08 2.08 7 6 Total dividends paid 13.59 22.74 44 73 Subsequent to 31 December 2015, the Directors declared the following final dividends, which have not been provided for: 2015 2014 2015 2014 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend 4.34 11.51 14 41 Final special dividend All dividends paid during 2015 and 2014 were in cash.
29 Share capital Number of 30p shares allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2015 324,672,061 Issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 58,240 Balance at 31 December 2015 324,730,301 All of the share capital is equity share capital.
At the year end, options over 193,354 ordinary shares remain outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme and are exercisable between now and 31 January 2021 at exercise prices between 3.30 and 4.69.
In addition, awards made under the LTIP up to 1,172,794 ordinary shares remain unvested and may potentially vest between 11 September 2016 and 10 September 2018.
Finally, 81,193 options under the Annual Bonus Plan may potentially vest between 8 September and 6 November 2018.
During the year Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc issued invitations to UK employees under the Sharesave Scheme to enter into a threeyear savings contract or a five-year savings contract with an option to purchase shares at an option price of 4.69 on expiry of the savings contract.
30 Reserves Cash flow hedge reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Treasury share reserve An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 5,758 shares at 31 December 2015 2014: 5,758 to satisfy the vesting of awards under the LTIP.
During the year no shares 2014: 252,590 shares were purchased by the trust.
At 31 December 2015, the cost of shares held by the trust was 33,153 2014: 32,093, whilst the market value of these shares at 31 December 2015 was 26,683 2014: 33,943.
Shares purchased by the trust are treated as treasury shares which are deducted from equity and excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 129 31 Financial commitments 2015 2014 m m a Capital commitments at the end of the financial year which are contracted but not provided for 44 25 The Groups share of the capital commitments of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 15. b Total commitments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable by the Group as follows: 2015 2014 m m less than one year 11 9 between one and five years 33 30 more than five years 141 140 185 179 c The Group leases out certain of its properties under operating leases.
The future minimum lease rentals receivable by the Group under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2015 2014 m m less than one year 30 30 between one and five years 91 96 more than five years 55 75 176 201 Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable leases includes all future rentals receivable up to the period when those leases expire or become cancellable.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, 42m was recognised as rental income in the income statement 2014: 37m and 1m 2014: 1m in respect of repairs and maintenance was recognised as an expense in the income statement relating to investment properties.
32 Contingencies and subsequent events In the course of its operations the Group is routinely exposed to potential liabilities for claims made by employees and contractual or tortious claims made by third parties.
No material losses are anticipated from such exposures.
There were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The Group has insurance cover up to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise the Group generally carries its own risk.
The Group believes that the accruals and provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
Other than the above transactions, there are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which require adjustments to or disclosure within these consolidated financial statements.
33 Related parties Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, associates and with its Directors and executive officers.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Transactions with ultimate holding company and other related companies The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd Hong Leong which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and holds 65% 2014: 61% of the Companys shares via City Developments Limited CDL, the intermediate holding company of the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries.
The Group deposited certain surplus cash with Hong Leong Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong, on normal commercial terms.
As at 31 December 2015, 3m 2014: 30m of cash was deposited with Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Fees paid payable by the Group to CDL and its other subsidiaries were 2m 2014: 2m which included rentals paid for the Grand Shanghai restaurant and Kings Centre: property management fees for Tanglin Shopping Centre: charges for car parking, leasing commission and professional services.
As at 31 December 2015, City e-Solutions Limited CES, a subsidiary of CDL held 1,152,031 2014: 1,152,031 ordinary shares in M&C.
CES through its subsidiaries provided consultancy, management and reservation services to M&C for the year ended 31 December 2015 for a total of 1m 2014: 1m.
Transactions with joint venture City Hotels Pte.
Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, provided a shareholder loan facility of 550m Thai Baht 10m to Fena Estate Company Limited Fena, its 50% owned joint venture.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 all of this facility was fully drawn.
The loan attracts interest of 4.5% 2014: 4.5% per annum.
This interest was rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
The total loan outstanding as at 31 December 2015, including rolled up interest, was 754m Thai Baht 14m 2014: 730m Thai Baht 14m.
The Group provided a further US$2m 1m operator loan facility to Fena which was fully drawn down.
This loan together with interest charged at 2.2% per annum was fully settled in 2015.
Transactions with key management personnel The beneficial interest of the Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.16% 2014: 0.16%.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and executive officers and contributes to a postemployment defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
The defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
Executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Groups Sharesave schemes.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 6 Share-based payment 2 7 6 Directors 2 2 Executives 5 4 7 6 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 131 34 Related undertakings The full list of the Companys related undertakings as at 31 December 2015 are set out below: Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities Aircoa Equity Interests Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Aircoa GP Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Aircoa LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 All Seasons Hotels & Resorts Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Dormant Auckland 1140, New Zealand Anchorage Lakefront Limited Partnership 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Archyield Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF ATOS Holdings AG 100% Direct subsidiary Austria Schulhof 6 1st floor, 1010 Vienna, Investment holding Austria Aurora Inn Operating Partnership L. P. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Avon Wynfield Inn.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Avon Wynfield LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Beijing Fortune Hotel Co. Ltd. 70% Indirect subsidiary Peoples Republic Building No.
5, 7 DongSanHuan Hotel owner and operator of China Middle Road, Chaoyang District, Bejing, P. R. China 100020 Biltmore Place Operations Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Liquor licence holder Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Birkenhead Holdings Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Holding company Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia Birkenhead Investments Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Property Investment & Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Management Sydney 2011, Australia Bostonian Hotel Limited Partnership 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Buffalo Operating Partnership L. P. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Buffalo RHM Operating LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 CDL New York LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 CDL NYL Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Investment holding Greenwood Village, CO 80111 CDL Entertainment & Leisure Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Provision of management Singapore House Singapore 068877 services and investment holding 1 1 1 CDL Hospitality Trusts 36% Associated undertakings Republic of See note below See note below Singapore CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF CDL Hotels Korea Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of Korea Chunggu Sowolro 50, Seoul, Hotel owner and operator Korea 04637 CDL Hotels Labuan Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Malaysia Tiara Labuan, Jalan Tanjung Batu, Hotel owner and operator 87000 F. T. Labuan, Malaysia Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities CDL Hotels Malaysia Sdn.
100% Indirect subsidiary Malaysia Level 8, Symphony House, Pusat Hotel owner and operator Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan CDL Hotels U. K. Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF CDL Hotels Holdings Japan Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment Holding Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong CDL Hotels Holdings New Zealand Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Investment holding Auckland 1140, New Zealand CDL Hotels Japan Pte.
Ltd. 40% Associated undertakings Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment Holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 CDL Hotels USA, Inc 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel investment holding Greenwood Village, CO 80111 company CDL Investments New Zealand Limited 67% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, investment and property Auckland 1140, New Zealand management company CDL Land New Zealand Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Property investment and Auckland 1140, New Zealand development CDL West 45th Street LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel Owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Chicago Hotel Holdings Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Cincinnati S. I. Co. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 City Century Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Restaurateur Singapore House Singapore 068877 City Elite Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Restaurateur Singapore House Singapore 068877 City Hotels Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotel owner Singapore House Singapore 068877 Context Securities Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Investment holding Auckland 1140, New Zealand Copthorne Nominees Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Aberdeen Limited 83% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel management Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Cardiff Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Effingham Park Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Construction 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Newcastle Limited 96% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Plymouth Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 133 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities Copthorne Hotels Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Copthorne Orchid Hotel Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Property owner and Singapore House Singapore 068877 developer Copthorne Orchid Penang Sdn.
100% Indirect subsidiary Malaysia Level 8, Symphony House, Pusat Hotel owner Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan Diplomat Hotel Holding Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Durham Operating Partnership L. P. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Elite Hotel Management Services Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotel Management Singapore House Singapore 068877 Consultancy Services 2 Fena Estate Company Limited 50% Associated undertakings Thailand No.
18 8 FICO Place Building, Floor Investment holding 10 Sukhumvit 21 Road Asoke, company Klongteuyneur Sub-district, Wattana District, Bangkok, Thailand Fergurson Hotel Management Limited 50% Associated undertakings Hong Kong Unit 606, 6th Floor, Alliance Building, Investment holding 133 Connaught Road Central, Hong Kong First 2000 Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment holding Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong First Sponsor Group Limited f. k. a.
Idea 36% Associated undertakings Cayman Islands 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Investment Holding 2 Valley Investment Holdings Ltd KY1-9005 Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands Five Star Assurance Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 1401 Eye St. NW, Suite 600, Captive insurance Washington D. C. 20005 company Four Peaks Management Company 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Arizona condominium Greenwood Village, CO 80111 management Gateway Holdings Corporation I 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Gateway Hotel Holdings Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Gateway Regal Holdings LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner and operator Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation 87% Indirect subsidiary Philippines 10 Floor, Heritage Hotel Manila, Hotel owner and operator EDSA corner Roxas Boulevard, and investment holding Pasay City, Philippines 1300 company Harbour Land Corporation 100% Associated undertakings Philippines 10 Floor, Heritage Hotel Manila, Land owner EDSA corner Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, Philippines 1300 Harbour View Hotel Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotel operator Singapore House Singapore 068877 Harrow Entertainment Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Hong Leong Ginza TMK 70% Indirect subsidiary Japan 4-1 Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Property owner Tokyo, Japan Hong Leong Hotel Development Limited 86% Indirect subsidiary Taiwan 2 Song Shou Road, Xinyi District, Hotel owner and operator Taipei 11051, Taiwan Hong Leong Hotels Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Cayman Islands PO Box 309 Ugland House, Grand Investment holding Cayman, KY1-1104 Cayman Islands company Hong Leong International Hotel Singapore 97% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Pte Ltd Singapore House Singapore 068877 Hospitality Group Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Holding Company Auckland 1140, New Zealand Hospitality Holdings Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 company Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities Hospitality Leases Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Lessee company Auckland 1140, New Zealand Hospitality Services Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Hotel operation Auckland 1140, New Zealand management Hospitality Ventures Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Hotel Liverpool Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Property letting Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Hotel Liverpool Management Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Operating company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Hotelcorp New Zealand Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Holding Company Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia International Design Link Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Property project design Singapore House Singapore 068877 consultancy services currently dormant KIN Holdings Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Holding company Auckland 1140, New Zealand Kings Tanglin Shopping Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Property Owner Singapore House Singapore 068877 Kingsgate Holdings Pty.
Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Holding company Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia Kingsgate Hotel Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Service company Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia Kingsgate Hotels and Resorts Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Franchise holder Quality Auckland 1140, New Zealand Kingsgate Hotels Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Hotel owner and operator Auckland 1140, New Zealand Kingsgate International Corporation Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Investment holding Auckland 1140, New Zealand Kingsgate Investments Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Investment company Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia Lakeside Operating Partnership L. P. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 London Britannia Hotel Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF London Tara Hotel Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel owner and operator Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C Asia Finance UK Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Finance company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C Asia Holdings UK Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M & C CB Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M & C CD Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M & C Management Services USA Inc 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Management services Greenwood Village, CO 80111 company M & C NZ Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Holding company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M & C Reservations Services Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Provider of reservation Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF services to hotel owners and operators M&C India Holdings Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment Holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 135 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities M&C Mauritius Holdings Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Mauritius 3rd Floor, Standard Chartered Tower, Investment Holding 19 Cybercity, Ebne, Mauritius M&C Business Trust Management Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Provision of property fund Singapore House Singapore 068877 management services M&C Colorado Hotel Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C Crescent Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Investment Holding Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C Crescent Interests, LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Property owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C Finance 1 Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Finance company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C Holdings Thailand Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Thailand 75 White Group Tower II, 11th Investment Holding and Floor, Soi Rubia, Sukhumvit 42 Hotel Management Road, Kwaeng Phrakanong Khet Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 Thailand M&C Holdings Delaware Partnership 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Property Investment Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C Holdings LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C Hotel Enterprises Asia Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment holding Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong M&C Hotel Interests Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel Management Greenwood Village, CO 80111 services company M&C Hotel Investments Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 M&C Hotels France Management SARL 100% Indirect subsidiary France 12 boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Management Company Paris, France M&C Hotels France SAS 100% Indirect subsidiary France 12 boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Hotel Owner Paris, France M&C Hotels Holdings Japan Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment Holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 M&C Hotels Holdings Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C Hotels Holdings USA Limited 100% Direct subsidiary Cayman Islands PO Box 309 Ugland House, Grand Investment holding Cayman, KY1-1104 Cayman Islands M&C Hotels Japan Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment Holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 M&C Hotels Partnership France SNC 100% Indirect subsidiary France 12 boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Investment holding Paris, France M&C Hospitality Holdings Asia Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment holding Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong M&C Hospitality International Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment holding Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong M&C Management Holdings Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C REIT Management Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City REIT investment Singapore House Singapore 068877 management services M&C New York Times Square, LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary Delaware, USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Investment holding Greenwood Village, CO 80111 M&C New York Finance UK Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Finance Company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C New York Times Square EAT II LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities M&C Singapore Finance UK Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Finance Company Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF M&C Singapore Holdings UK Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF McCormick Ranch Operating Partnership 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership L. P. Greenwood Village, CO 80111 MHM Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel management Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Millennium Bostonian, Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Millennium & Copthorne Austrian Holdings 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium & Copthorne Jersey Holdings 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Holding company Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium & Copthorne Hotel Holdings 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Investment and Hong Kong Limited Harbour Road, Wanchai, development of hotels and Hong Kong hotel management Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Hong Kong 100% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 Provision of hotel Limited Harbour Road, Wanchai, management and Hong Kong consultancy services Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Name-holding Auckland 1140, New Zealand Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New 75% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Hotel investment holding Zealand Limited Auckland 1140, New Zealand company Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Pty.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, 82-94 Name holding Darlinghurst Road, Potts Point, Sydney 2011, Australia Millennium & Copthorne International 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotels and resorts Limited Singapore House Singapore 068877 management Millennium & Copthorne Middle East 51% Indirect subsidiary Hong Kong 2803 Great Eagle Centre, 23 hotel management Holdings Limited Harbour Road, Wanchai, services company Hong Kong Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Pension trust acting Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF on behalf of company trustees Millennium & Copthorne Share Trustees 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Share Trustee Company Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium CDG Paris SAS 100% Indirect subsidiary France 12 boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Hotel operator Paris, France Millennium Hotel Holdings EMEA Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium Hotels & Resorts Services 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Management Contract Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF holding company Millennium Hotels Europe Holdings Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium Hotels Italy Holdings S. r. l. 100% Indirect subsidiary Italy Via Vittoria Veneto, n. 70, Roma Hotellerie Sector 00187, Italy Millennium Hotels Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium Hotels Hotel Palace Holdings 100% Indirect subsidiary Italy Via Vittoria Veneto, n. 70, Roma Hotel owner and operator S. r. l. 00187, Italy Millennium Hotels West London Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Property letting Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium Hotels West London 100% Indirect subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Hotel operator Management Limited Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Millennium Hotels London Limited 100% Direct subsidiary United Kingdom Victoria House, Victoria Road, Investment holding Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 137 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities Millennium Opera Paris SAS 100% Indirect subsidiary France 12 boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Hotel operator Paris, France 2 New Unity Holdings Ltd. 50% Associated undertakings BVI PO Box 146 Road Town, Tortola, Investment holding British Virgin Islands New York Sign LLC 50% Associated undertakings USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, To lease, manage, and Greenwood Village, CO 80111 otherwise deal with certain advertising signage space at the Novotel hotel Newbury Investments Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Park Plaza Hotel Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 PT Millennium Hotels & Resorts 100% Indirect subsidiary Indonesia Jalan Fachrudin 3, Jakarta 10250, Management services Indonesia PT.
Millennium Sirih Jakarta 80% Indirect subsidiary Indonesia Jalan Fachrudin 3, Jakarta 10250, Hotel owner Indonesia QINZ Anzac Avenue Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Hotel owner Auckland 1140, New Zealand QINZ Holdings New Zealand Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, holding company Auckland 1140, New Zealand Quantum Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary New Zealand Level 13, 280 Queen Street, Holding company Auckland 1140, New Zealand Regal Grand Holdings Corporation I 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Regal Harvest House L. P. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Regal Hotel Management Inc. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Republic Hotels & Resorts Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotel operator and Singapore House Singapore 068877 investment holding company Republic Hotels Suzhou Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Dormant Singapore House Singapore 068877 Republic Iconic Hotel Pte.
Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Hotel operator Singapore House Singapore 068877 RHH Operating LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHI Boston Holdings Corporation I 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHI Boston Holdings Corporation II 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM Aurora LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM Holdings Corporation I 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM Management LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM Ranch LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM Wynfield LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHM-88 LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner and operator Greenwood Village, CO 80111 RHR Capital Pte.
Ltd. in the process of 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Financial and treasury striking off Singapore House Singapore 068877 Services Richfield Holdings Corporation I 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Financial statements 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage Type incorporation Registered office address Principal Activities Richfield Holdings Corporation II 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Richfield Holdings Inc 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding Company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Rogo Realty Corporation 40% Associated undertakings Philippines 10 Floor, Heritage Hotel Manila, Real estate owner EDSA corner Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, Philippines 1300 S. S. Restaurant Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Liquor license holder Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Sunnyvale Partners Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Tara Hotels Deutschland GmbH 100% Indirect subsidiary Germany Registered at the Trade register at Hotel investment holding the local court of Hannover with the company legal form of Private limited company number HRB 209133.
The Philippine Fund Limited 60% Indirect subsidiary Bermuda C o Coson Corporate Services Investment holding Limited, Cumberland House 9th Floor, 1 Victoria Street Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda TOSCAP Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Trimark Hotel Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner and operator Greenwood Village, CO 80111 WHB Biltmore LLC 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel owner and operator Greenwood Village, CO 80111 WHB Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Wynfield GP Corporation 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Hotel ownership Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Wynfield One Ltd. 100% Indirect subsidiary USA 7600 E. Orchard Rd.
Suite 230 S, Holding company Greenwood Village, CO 80111 Zatrio Pte Ltd 100% Indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City Investment holding Singapore House Singapore 068877 Zillion Holdings Limited 100% Indirect subsidiary Barbados The Phoenix Centre, George Street, Investment holding Belleville, St. Michael, Barbados 1 CDL Hospitality T rusts is a stapled group comprising CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT, a real estate investment trust, and CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT, a business trust.
H-REIT has an investment strategy of investing, directly or indirectly, in a diversified portfolio of income-producing real estate which is primarily used for hospitality and or hospitality-related purposes, whether wholly or partially, and real-estate related assets in relation to the foregoing.
HBT is a business trust which was activated in December 2013.
In addition to its function as a master lessee, HBT may also undertake certain hospitality and hospitality-related development projects, acquisitions and investments which may not be suitable for H-REIT.
The registered office address of M&C REIT Management Limited, Manager of H-REIT and M&C Business Trust Management Limited, Trustee-Manager of HBT is 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City House Singapore 068877.
As disclosed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has concluded that under IFRS10, it has fide facto control over CDL Hospitality Trusts.
2 The Gr oup has assessed the classification of its investments in First Sponsor Group Limited, New Unity Holdings Limited and Fena Estate Company Limited in accordance with IFRS10 and concluded that it does not have control.
Exemption from statutory audit Listed below are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by the Group, where the Directors have elected to take the exemption from having an audit of their financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This exemption is taken in accordance with Companies Act s479A.
Archyield Limited 1747079 Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Limited 2590620 CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 2845022 Copthorne Hotel Plymouth Limited 3253120 CDL Hotels U. K. Limited 2729520 Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 2300992 Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 1816493 Copthorne Nominees Limited 2574042 Copthorne Hotel Cardiff Limited 2411296 Diplomat Hotel Holding Limited 1927463 Copthorne Hotel Effingham Park Limited 1423861 Hotel Liverpool Limited 9636541 Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 994968 Hotel Liverpool Management Limited 9638688 Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 1855800 London Britannia Hotel Limited 744379 Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Construction Limited 2649367 London Tara Hotel Limited 1005559 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 139 Exemption from statutory audit continued M&C Asia Finance UK Limited 8391037 Millennium & Copthorne Austrian Holdings Limited 3757378 M&C Asia Holdings UK Limited 8382946 Millennium & Copthorne Jersey Holdings Limited 5846574 M&C CB Limited 3846711 Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee Limited 6662791 M&C CD Limited 3846704 Millennium & Copthorne Share Trustees Limited 3320990 M&C Finance 1 Limited 6783896 Millennium Hotel Holdings EMEA Limited 4592877 M&C Hotels Holdings Limited 4407581 Millennium Hotels Limited 3141048 M&C Management Holdings Limited 5832248 Millennium Hotels Europe Holdings Limited 8844747 M&C New York Finance UK Limited 9060415 Millennium Hotels London Limited 3691885 M&C NZ Limited 5159722 Millennium Hotels West London Limited 8599282 M&C Singapore Finance UK Limited 8391052 Millennium Hotels West London Management Limited 8891908 M&C Singapore Holdings UK Limited 8382985 Millennium Hotels & Resorts Services Limited 4601112 Each companys registered number is shown in brackets after its name.
Non-controlling interests NCI The following subsidiaries have material NCI.
Ownership interests held by NCI Principal place of business Country of Name incorporation Principal activity 2015 2014 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Limited MCHNZ New Zealand Hotel investment holding company 25% 25% CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT Singapore Real estate investment trust 64% 64% The following is summarised financial information for MCHNZ and CDLHT, prepared in accordance with local accounting standards.
The information is before inter-company eliminations with other companies in the Group.
MCHNZ Subgroup CDLHT Subgroup 2015 2014 2015 2014 Name m m m m Revenue 63 65 82 84 Profit after tax 13 18 28 62 Profit attributable to NCI 3 4 18 39 Other comprehensive income 2 5 Total comprehensive income 15 23 28 62 Total comprehensive income attributable to NCI 3 6 18 39 Current assets 60 75 44 48 Non-current assets 212 217 1,168 1,143 Current liabilities 14 16 120 174 Non-current liabilities 53 52 344 231 Net assets 205 224 748 786 Net assets attributable to NCI 26 56 479 503 Cash flows from operating activities 3 10 63 70 Cash flows from investing activities 8 79 72 46 Cash flows from financing activities 1 40 6 20 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4 29 3 4 1 Dividends paid to NCI during the year 1 1 49 33 1 Included in cash flows from financing activities.
