Strategic Report Governance Financial Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report, the groups financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The groups financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are required to be measured at fair value.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 except for the adoption of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
These standards clarify aspects of the basis for consolidation.
The adoption of these standards has had no impact on the results or financial position of the group.
The following amendments were also effective for the first time in the current period but had no impact on the results or financial position of the group: a Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: a Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting: a Amendments to IAS 36: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets: and a IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet mandatorily effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: a Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Employee Contributions: a Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations: a Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers a Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements a Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture a Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception: a Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative: and a Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle, 2011-2013 Cycle and 2012-2014 Cycle.
The group are conducting a review of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which is currently due to be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, although this is subject to a proposal, by the International Accounting Standards Board, to defer the effective date by one year.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of other standards and interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU will have a material financial impact on the groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Significant accounting policies under IFRS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the groups IFRS financial information are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Mitie Group plc and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of the parent company and subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP with the exception of a small number of entities.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated accounts to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between UK GAAP and IFRS.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Mitie Group plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the group.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
Interests of non-controlling interest shareholders are measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
Any difference between the change in the non-controlling interest and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Operating profit before other items The groups chosen supplementary measure of performance is operating profit before other items.
The Directors believe that operating profit before other items provides a meaningful indication of the long-term operating performance of the group.
To align the measure of the groups performance with the long-term nature of the business, operating profit before other items excludes items which create short-term volatility.
The measure excludes restructuring and acquisition costs, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and items that are one-off in nature and which, due to their size or nature, are not indicative of the long-term operating performance of the group.
Foreign currency The financial statements of each of the groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity in the groups hedging and translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of sales taxes and is earned predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
When revenue is recognised but has not yet been billed accrued income arises.
Deferred income arises when the group has billed clients in advance of recognising revenue.
All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of the costs is virtually certain.
The confirmation of the preferred bidder for a contract by a client is the point at which the award of a contract is considered to be virtually certain.
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
Revenue from time and material contracts is recognised at the contractual rates as labour hours and tasks are delivered and direct expenses incurred.
In other cases, the group distinguishes between the following types of contract: Revenue recognition: repeat service-based contracts single and bundled contracts Revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis unless this is not an accurate reflection of the work performed.
Where a straight-line basis is not appropriate, for example if specific works on contracts represent a significant element of the whole, revenue is recognised based on the percentage of completion method, based on the proportion of costs incurred at the balance sheet date relative to the total estimated cost of completing the contracted work.
Mitie Group plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Costs incurred after confirmation of preferred bidder, but before the commencement of services under the contract, are defined as mobilisation costs.
These costs are capitalised and included within trade and other receivables on the balance sheet provided that the costs relate directly to the contract, are separately identifiable, can be measured reliably and that the future net cash inflows from the contract are estimated to be no less than the amounts capitalised.
The capitalised mobilisation costs are amortised over the life of the contract, generally on a straight-line basis, or on a basis to reflect the profile of work to be performed over the life of the contract if the straight-line basis is not considered to be appropriate for the specific contract to which the costs relate.
If the contract becomes loss making, any unamortised costs are written off immediately.
Revenue recognition: long-term complex contracts The group has a number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex project-based services, predominantly integrated facilities management contracts.
Where the outcome of such complex project-based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the total estimated contract costs.
Contract costs used to determine the stage of completion are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred and include transition costs which are costs incurred in the performance of transitioning services provided after confirmation of preferred bidder and before commencement of full service delivery.
Where the outcome of a complex project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
Revenue recognition: other Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when: there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities: when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority: and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
It is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Mitie Group plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less expected residual value of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and vehicles 310 years Annually the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Intangible assets Intangible assets identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Software and development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset if the asset created can be identified, if it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits and if the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
Amortisation expense is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
Joint ventures and associates The group has an interest in joint ventures which are entities in which the group has joint control.
The group also has an interest in associates which are entities in which the group has significant influence.
The group accounts for its interest in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method the groups share of the post-tax result of joint ventures and associates is reported as a single line item in the consolidated income statement.
The groups interest in joint ventures and associates is carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present condition and location.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and estimated selling costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Mitie Group plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The group derecognises financial assets and liabilities only when the contractual rights and obligations are transferred, discharged or expire.
Assets that are assessed not to be individually impaired are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables includes the groups past experience of collecting payments, the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets comprise loans and receivables and are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities comprise trade payables, financing liabilities, including bank and other borrowings, put options on non-controlling interests and deferred contingent consideration.
These are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value, and deferred contingent consideration which is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation.
Bank and other borrowings are stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement.
Put options on the shares of subsidiaries held by non-controlling interest shareholders that oblige the group to purchase those shares for cash are recognised as a financial liability at their present value of the option exercise price.
The initial financial liability and subsequent changes in its carrying value are recognised in equity.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The group uses derivative financial instruments including cross currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the groups exposure to financial risks associated with interest rates and foreign exchange.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value, determined by reference to market rates, at each balance sheet date and included as financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The group may designate certain hedging instruments including derivatives as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedges Hedges are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash flow hedges Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity within the groups translation and hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Mitie Group plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the foreign currency exposure to changes in the groups share in the net assets of a foreign operation.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the groups translation and hedging reserve.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operation as described above.
Leasing Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any lease incentives are amortised on a straight-line basis over the non-cancellable period for which the group has contracted to lease the asset, together with any further terms for which the group has the option to continue to lease the asset if, at the inception of the lease, it is judged to be reasonably certain that the group will exercise the option.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where applicable, the consideration for an acquisition includes any assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they result from additional information, obtained within one year from the acquisition date, about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
Mitie Group plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Any business combinations prior to 1 April 2010 were accounted for using the standards in place prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 which differ in the following respects: transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs: contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable: and subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Share-based payments The group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of nonmarket based vesting conditions.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Save As You Earn SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Retirement benefit costs The group operates and participates in a number of defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the schemes in which the group participates, the group accounts for its legal and constructive obligations over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
In addition, the group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees.
Payments to the defined contribution and stakeholder pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit and loss and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Current service cost and past service cost are recognised in profit and loss, in administrative expenses, whilst the net interest cost is recognised in net finance costs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised for certain long-term complex projects based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by comparing the proportion of costs incurred, which include transition costs reflecting costs incurred in the performance of transitioning services see Note 1, against the estimated whole-life contract costs.
Particular judgement is required in evaluating the operational and financial business plans for these contracts to forecast the expected whole-life contract billings, costs and margin and to assess the recoverability of any resulting accrued income through the life of the contract.
In forming the judgement around expected whole-life contract billings, account is taken of potential deductions from and increments to revenue that may arise from the application of performance related measures under contracts.
Accounting for joint ventures and associates The group has interests in entities in which it considers that it does not have control and which are accounted for using the equity method.
In the group accounts, consideration is given to the treatment that should be adopted for the results of those entities in which the group has a participation, taking into account the ownership of the entity and the groups influence over its control.
Particular consideration was given to the groups interest in a special purpose company, O-Gen Plymtrek Limited O-Gen. As a result of a number of factors, and in particular the combination of not having a majority of directors on the Board and having no veto rights over substantive matters, the group equity accounts for its interest in O-Gen see Note 5.
Mitie Group plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Measurement and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of suitable discount rates.
Determining whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates to use in order to calculate present values.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is 541.0m 2014: 538.9m at the balance sheet date: see Notes 13 and 14.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed and Management have concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions would result in an impairment of the goodwill of any of the Soft FM, Hard FM, Property Management or Energy Solutions CGUs.
Further sensitivity testing was performed for the groups Healthcare CGU where the financial performance of the business has deteriorated during the year.
On the basis of this review Management have concluded that no impairment to goodwill is necessary.
A sensitivity analysis is included in Note 13.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations The measurement of defined benefit obligations requires judgement.
It is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, life expectancy rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates.
The present value of defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is 207.5m 2014: 179.1m : see Note 36.
The sensitivity of defined benefit pension obligations to changes in principal actuarial assumptions is shown below: Increase decrease Change in in liability assumption m Discount rate 0.5% 20.7 -0.5% 20.7 Retail price inflation 0.5% 15.8 -0.5% 13.8 Consumer price inflation 0.5% 4.9 -0.5% 4.9 Salary increases 0.5% 3.9 -0.5% 3.9 Life expectancy 1 year 7.1 Measurement of provisions The groups provisions per Note 27 comprise deferred contingent consideration and insurance reserves.
The measurement of provisions requires judgement.
In particular the measurement of deferred contingent consideration is dependent on key assumptions including future cashflows.
3 Revenue 2015 2014 m m Headline Rendering of services 2,265.8 2,113.2 Construction contracts 0.4 29.4 Headline revenue 2,266.2 2,142.6 Other items Construction contracts 7.6 78.5 Total revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 2,273.8 2,221.1 Investment revenue Note 8 0.3 1.2 Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 2,274.1 2,222.3 Mitie Group plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 4 Business and geographical segments The group manages its business on a service division basis.
These divisions are the basis on which the group reports its primary segmental information.
Soft FM, Healthcare and Property Management remain unchanged.
A proforma analysis of the financial results of the business for the year ended 31 March 2015 is set out below.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in 2015 or 2014.
The Improvement to IFRS 8 issued in April 2009 clarified that a measure of segment assets should be disclosed only if that amount is regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and consequently no segment assets are disclosed.
Geographical segments 2015 2014 1 1 1 1 Headline Headline Headline Headline 1 1 Headline operating operating Profit Headline operating operating Profit Revenue revenue profit profit margin before tax Revenue revenue profit profit margin before tax m m m % m m m m % m United Kingdom 2,190.7 2,183.1 126.8 5.8 40.0 2,149.5 2,071.0 125.7 6.1 66.9 Other countries 83.1 83.1 1.8 2.2 1.5 71.6 71.6 1.8 2.5 1.5 Total 2,273.8 2,266.2 128.6 5.7 41.5 2,221.1 2,142.6 127.5 6.0 68.4 Note: 1 Headline revenue and operating profit exclude other items which are analysed in Note 5.
Mitie Group plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 5 Other items The groups chosen supplementary measure of performance is operating profit before other items see Note 1.
The group separately identifies and discloses restructuring and acquisition related items termed other items.
The results of the mechanical and electrical engineering construction businesses which are being exited are also presented in Other items.
During the year those businesses generated revenue of 7.6m 2014: 78.5m and incurred a trading loss of 15.9m 2014: 13.6m.
The businesses being exited do not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations because the businesses have not been disposed of and there are no assets classified as held for sale.
Accordingly the disclosures within non-headline items differ from those applicable for discontinued operations.
Within our Asset Management business, which became part of our Energy Solutions division, there are a small number of contracts where the forecast operational and financial performance has deteriorated and where returns were highly uncertain.
As a result of significant deterioration in the forecast performance of three key remaining contracts, together with the decision taken by mutual agreement with a customer to exit one contract which crystallised a loss, exceptional charges of 45.7m 2014: 25.4m have been included in other items.
27.2m of the 45.7m charge relates to the most material of these projects, O-Gen Plymtrek Limited: The group has a 30% non-controlling equity interest in a special purpose company, O-Gen Plymtrek Limited O-Gen, to which Mitie had extended subordinated debt.
The balance of the subordinated debt included within Financing assets was nil at 31 March 2015 2014: 13.4m before provisions.
As a result of a number of factors, and in particular the combination of not having a majority of directors on the Board and having no veto rights over substantive matters, the groups interest in O-Gen is accounted for as an associate and is held at nil value 2014: nil.
The Energy Solutions division had a contract to construct and operate a renewable energy plant for O-Gen which had been subject to delays and considerable cost overruns.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, these delays and overruns gave rise to exceptional charges of 17.1m which were included within the exceptional charges in Energy Solutions of 25.4m.
These charges included impairment losses of 8.7m in respect of the subordinated debt and 3.0m in respect of trade and other receivables.
At 31 March 2014, the groups trade and other receivables included a balance of 6.1m before provisions in respect of the plant design and build contract.
In our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the group disclosed a contingent liability with a maximum value of 20.6m in relation to guarantees provided in respect of O-Gen. At 30 September 2014, the group reassessed its exposure to O-Gen and, due to the deterioration in financial returns, accrued its potential liability under its guarantee arrangements of 19.4m together with other charges of 9.6m relating to the residual financial exposure to the project.
In December 2014, after notification of further delays to the construction programme, the group decided to stop construction of the energy plant.
As a consequence, the main funder of the project exercised its rights under one of the projects financing agreements and on 27 March 2015 Mitie paid 15.9m in cash to settle its residual liability to the funder.
O-Gen sold its interest in the energy plant in March 2015.
A total of 27.2m 2014: 17.1m of exceptional charges have been recognised in respect of the project during the year and are included within Other items.
These charges include impairment losses of 4.7m 2014: 8.7m and 3.1m 2014 3.0m in respect of the groups subordinated debt and trade and other receivables respectively.
At 31 March 2015, all financial assets in relation to O-Gen were fully impaired 2014: 13.4m and 6.1m gross carrying values in respect of the subordinated debt and trade and other receivables respectively and Mitie has no remaining obligations or liabilities in connection with the project.
Acquisition costs in the year to 31 March 2015 relate to the acquisition of Procius Limited and Source Eight Limited.
Mitie Group plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 5 Other items Other items impacted administrative expenses with the exception of 9.8m of trading losses 2014: 2.0m profit which impacted gross profit.
2015 2014 Restructuring Restructuring and acquisition Businesses and acquisition Businesses related costs being exited Other items related costs being exited Other items m m m m m m Revenue 7.6 7.6 78.5 78.5 Cost of Sales 17.4 17.4 76.5 76.5 Administrative expenses: Overheads 6.1 6.1 15.6 15.6 Exceptional charges in relation to design and build Asset Management contracts in Energy Solutions 45.7 45.7 25.4 25.4 Restructuring costs relating to the integration of Complete Group 2014: Enara and Complete Group 0.6 0.6 4.4 4.4 Acquisition costs 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 10.1 10.1 11.0 11.0 Restructuring of Mitie Group defined benefit pension scheme 10.2 10.2 Other items before tax 56.7 15.9 72.6 31.3 13.6 44.9 Tax on other items 15.0 3.3 18.3 3.7 2.0 5.7 Other items net of tax 41.7 12.6 54.3 27.6 11.6 39.2 6 Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2015 2014 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 15 19.7 16.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 14 13.8 17.0 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 Staff costs Note 7 1,149.9 1,136.7 Mitie Group plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 6 Operating profit A detailed analysis of auditors remuneration is provided below: 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 33 33 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 605 586 Total audit fees 638 619 Other audit related services to the group 80 50 Tax services 89 140 Corporate finance service 125 99 Other services 36 10 Non-audit fees 330 299 Total 968 918 In addition to the amounts shown above the auditor received fees of nil 2014: 19,000 for the audit of the group pension scheme and trusts.
7 Staff costs Number of people 2015 2014 The average number of people employed during the financial year was: Soft FM 56,473 57,410 Hard FM 5,015 4,841 Property Management 2,286 3,297 Healthcare 6,605 6,587 Energy Solutions 116 113 Total group 70,495 72,248 The number of people employed at 31 March was: Total group 69,557 72,768 2015 2014 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: m m Wages and salaries 1,042.9 1,035.8 Social security costs 81.6 80.5 Other pension costs 18.9 15.4 Share-based payments Note 35 6.5 5.0 1,149.9 1,136.7 Details of Directors remuneration and interests are provided in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report and should be regarded as an integral part of this Note.
Mitie Group plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 8 Investment revenue 2015 2014 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.3 0.2 Other interest receivable 1.0 0.3 1.2 9 Finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest on bank facilities 1.4 2.1 Interest on private placement loan notes 9.6 9.5 Bank fees 2.8 2.3 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.3 Gain loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 3.7 3.8 Loss gain arising on adjustment for the hedged item in a designated fair value hedge 3.8 4.0 Net interest on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities 0.7 1.4 14.8 15.4 10 Tax 2015 2014 m m Current tax 9.7 19.1 Deferred tax Note 21 3.9 0.8 5.8 19.9 Corporation tax is calculated at 21.0% 2014: 23.0% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
A reconciliation of the tax charge to the elements of profit before tax per the consolidated income statement elements is as follows: 2015 2014 Headline Other items Total Headline Other items Total m m m m m m Profit before tax 114.1 72.6 41.5 113.3 44.9 68.4 Tax at UK rate of 21.0% 2014: 23% 23.9 15.2 8.7 26.0 10.3 15.7 Reconciling tax charges for: Non-tax deductible charges 0.7 0.1 0.8 0.6 0.2 0.8 Energy Solutions contract exit costs 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3 Overseas tax rates 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Impact of change in statutory tax rates 1.0 1.0 Prior year adjustments 0.6 0.6 0.2 1.1 0.9 Tax charge for the year 24.1 18.3 5.8 25.6 5.7 19.9 Effective tax rate for the year 21.1% 25.2% 14.0% 22.6% 12.7% 29.1% In addition to the amounts charged to the consolidated income statement, a tax credit relating to retirement benefit costs and hedged items amounting to 3.2m 2014: 1.8m charge has been taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income and 0.1m relating to share-based payments has been charged 2014: 1.0m credited directly to equity.
Mitie Group plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 10 Tax The effective tax rate on Headline profits is generally higher than the statutory tax rate due to entertaining costs, commercial property depreciation and share-based payment charges not being wholly tax deductible and tax losses incurred overseas.
In the prior year this was offset by the restatement of deferred tax items for the legislated change in the UK corporate tax rate from 23% to 20%.
The effective tax rate on Other items generally differs from the statutory rate due to tax relief not being obtained for certain acquisition costs.
In the prior year tax relief was not fully recognised on provisions relating to the exit from Energy Solutions design and build contracts, as the form of the exit from certain joint venture arrangements was not agreed.
Exit from these contracts was completed in the current year and tax relief is now recognised on the basis of the actual costs incurred.
Accordingly, the higher effective tax relief rate in the current year reflects a reversal of the lower effective rate in the prior year.
The prior year charge in 2014 was due to the lapse of historic tax losses in businesses being exited and is not repeated in the current year.
11 Dividends 2015 2014 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 6.1p 2013: 5.7p per share 21.9 20.5 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 5.2p 2014: 4.9p per share 18.6 17.6 40.5 38.1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 6.5p 2014: 6.1p per share 22.9 21.9 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
12 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2015 2014 m m Net headline profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 89.3 87.5 Other items net of tax 54.3 39.2 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 35.0 48.3 2015 2014 Number of shares million million Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 359.3 359.9 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares: share options 10.4 11.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 369.7 371.0 2015 2014 p p 1 Headline basic earnings per share 24.8 24.3 Basic earnings per share 9.7 13.4 1 Headline diluted earnings per share 24.2 23.6 Diluted earnings per share 9.5 13.0 Notes: 1 Headline revenue and operating profit exclude other items which are analysed in Note 5.
The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year excludes those accounted for in the Own shares reserve see Note 31.
Mitie Group plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 13 Goodwill Cost m At 1 April 2013 447.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12.7 Impact of foreign exchange 0.3 At 1 April 2014 459.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5.7 Impact of foreign exchange 0.9 At 31 March 2015 464.4 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2013 At 1 April 2014 At 31 March 2015 Carrying amount At 31 March 2015 464.4 At 31 March 2014 459.6 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
Additions during the year relate to goodwill recognised on two acquisitions and finalisation of the acquisition accounting for acquisitions made in the prior year.
More details are presented in the Acquisitions note Note 32.
Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs, which align with the business segments, as this is how goodwill is monitored by the group internally.
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Initial Security in 2006, Dalkia Technical Facilities Management in 2009 and Enara in 2012.
Discount rate Discount rate Goodwill Goodwill 2015 2014 2015 2014 % % m m Soft FM 8.7 9.8 171.3 168.1 Hard FM 8.7 9.8 83.8 83.8 Property Management 10.0 11.0 85.2 85.2 Healthcare 10.0 11.0 106.6 105.0 Energy Solutions 10.0 12.0 17.5 17.5 464.4 459.6 The group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
Mitie Group plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 13 Goodwill Key assumptions The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to revenue and direct costs during the period.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts.
Changes in revenue and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
Management recognise that there has been a deterioration in the profitability of the Healthcare business in the last financial year.
The decline has been driven by a combination of market pricing pressures due to local authority spending cuts and difficulties in recruiting and retaining healthcare workers in a significantly improving jobs market.
We have undertaken a complete review of the business resulting in changes to the operating model and a reinvigorated business plan which supports our long term view of the growth rates for this business.
Growth rates and terminal values The group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent one year financial budgets approved by the Board, extrapolated for four future years by the expected growth applicable to each unit with a terminal value using an inflationary growth rate assumption in the range 2.0% 2.5% dependent on the CGU.
Discount rates The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows from CGUs are derived from the Companys post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital, which was 7.4% 2014: 8.2% at 31 March 2015, and adjusted for the risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
All CGUs have the same access to the groups Treasury functions and borrowing lines to fund their operations.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis has been performed and the Directors have concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions would result in an impairment of the goodwill of any of the Soft Facilities Management, Hard Facilities Management, Property Management and Energy Solutions CGUs.
In particular, a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 1% decrease in the terminal value growth rate would not result in impairment in any of these CGUs.
Further sensitivity testing was performed for the groups Healthcare CGU as it has seen deterioration in profitability in the last financial year following two years of good performance.
The Directors believe that the assumptions within the business plan for the Healthcare business are reasonable and there is headroom between the carrying value of goodwill for that CGU and the net present value of the future cash flows that are expected to be generated by the business.
There continues to be significant focus on and investment in the healthcare business and the Directors continue to see long term growth opportunities in the domiciliary care market.
The Directors recognise that it is possible that an impairment to the healthcare goodwill could be identified if the performance of the business does not improve as expected over the longer term in line with the business plan.
Factors that could cause deterioration in the future cash flows of the business compared to the plan and cause an impairment in goodwill include: a the inability to recruit and retain staff at appropriate wage rates: a the inability to win new and retain contracts to provide care hours at sustainable prices: and a an adverse structural change to outsourcing of care in the UK caused by changes in UK Government policy.
We have considered the impact of a range of sensitivities on the headroom between the recoverable amount and the carrying value of the goodwill attributable to the Healthcare CGU.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets becomes equal to its recoverable amount following the application of the following sensitivities: a an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 3%: or a a fall in the terminal value growth rate to a negative long-term inflationary assumption of 1%: or a a 34% reduction in operating profit by year 5 compared to the plan.
Mitie Group plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 14 Other intangible assets Acquisition related Total Software and Customer acquisition development relationships Other related expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2013 84.7 10.5 95.2 40.4 135.6 Additions 2.1 2.1 6.2 8.3 At 1 April 2014 86.8 10.5 97.3 46.6 143.9 Additions 1.6 0.4 2.0 3.9 5.9 Reclassifications from Property, plant and equipment Note 15 5.2 5.2 At 31 March 2015 88.4 10.9 99.3 55.7 155.0 Amortisation At 1 April 2013 31.5 7.4 38.9 8.7 47.6 Charge for the year 10.2 0.8 11.0 6.0 17.0 At 1 April 2014 41.7 8.2 49.9 14.7 64.6 Charge for the year 9.5 0.6 10.1 3.7 13.8 At 31 March 2015 51.2 8.8 60.0 18.4 78.4 Carrying amount At 31 March 2015 37.2 2.1 39.3 37.3 76.6 At 31 March 2014 45.1 2.3 47.4 31.9 79.3 Customer relationships are amortised over their useful lives based on the period of time over which they are anticipated to generate benefits.
These currently range from four to eight years.
Other acquisition related intangibles include acquired software, trade names and non-compete agreements and are amortised over their useful lives which currently range from three to ten years.
Software and development costs are amortised over their useful lives of between five and ten years, once they have been brought into use.
Mitie Group plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 15 Property, plant and equipment Freehold Leasehold Plant and properties properties vehicles Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2013 4.8 15.6 97.8 118.2 Additions 2.4 20.2 22.6 Disposals 1.5 2.3 16.2 20.0 At 1 April 2014 3.3 15.7 101.8 120.8 Additions 3.1 20.5 23.6 Reclassifications to intangible assets Note 14 5.2 5.2 Disposals 0.6 0.8 7.7 9.1 At 31 March 2015 2.7 18.0 109.4 130.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2013 1.0 7.6 53.4 62.0 Charge for the year 0.1 1.6 14.4 16.1 Disposals 0.4 1.7 11.9 14.0 At 1 April 2014 0.7 7.5 55.9 64.1 Charge for the year 1.7 18.0 19.7 Disposals 0.1 0.8 6.1 7.0 At 31 March 2015 0.6 8.4 67.8 76.8 Carrying amount At 31 March 2015 2.1 9.6 41.6 53.3 At 31 March 2014 2.6 8.2 45.9 56.7 The net book value of plant and vehicles held under finance leases included above was 3.4m 2014: 4.9m.
Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to 0.6m 2014: 2.0m were financed by new finance leases.
16 Interest in joint ventures and associates The groups interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
The groups share of result of joint ventures and associates included in the consolidated income statement was as follows: 2015 2014 m m Revenue 3.8 3.3 Operating profit 0.7 0.6 Net finance costs 0.1 Share of result of joint ventures and associates 0.7 0.5 Mitie Group plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 16 Interest in joint ventures and associates The groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates as at 31 March 2015 was as follows: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 1.7 13.1 Current assets 1.3 1.2 Current liabilities 0.6 2.4 Non-current liabilities 1.3 11.0 Interest in joint ventures and associates 1.1 0.9 Joint ventures and associated undertakings are not material to the group.
None have significant restrictions on the ability to transfer funds to the group in the form of cash dividends, or to repay loans or advances made by the group.
Exceptional charges arose in connection with the groups participation in an associated undertaking, O-Gen Plymtrek Limited see Note 5.
17 Financing assets 2015 2014 m m Derivative financial instruments Note 26 6.8 Loans to joint ventures and associates 1.2 14.8 Infrastructure assets 5.6 8.0 20.4 Included in current assets Included in non-current assets 8.0 20.4 8.0 20.4 18 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Amounts receivable for the sale of services 202.3 259.0 Allowance for doubtful debt 8.4 6.2 Trade receivables 193.9 252.8 Amounts recoverable on construction contracts Note 19 8.1 13.0 Mobilisation costs Note 20 30.6 30.3 Accrued income 192.6 183.4 Prepayments 38.2 28.9 Other debtors 16.5 24.4 479.9 532.8 Included in current assets 421.4 491.6 Included in non-current assets 58.5 41.2 479.9 532.8 Mitie Group plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 18 Trade and other receivables Ageing of trade receivables: 2015 2014 m m Neither impaired nor past due 149.7 198.6 Not impaired and less than three months overdue 34.6 36.5 Not impaired and more than three months overdue 13.5 21.3 Impaired receivables 4.5 2.6 Allowance for doubtful debt 8.4 6.2 193.9 252.8 Movement in the allowance for doubtful debt: 2015 2014 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 6.2 6.0 Impairment losses recognised 5.6 2.5 Amounts written off as uncollectable 2.4 1.1 Amounts recovered during the year 1.0 1.2 8.4 6.2 The average credit period taken on sales of services was 26 days 2014: 37 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
19 Amounts recoverable on construction contracts 2015 2014 Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date m m Construction contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 127.1 268.5 Less progress billings 119.0 255.5 Amounts due from construction contract customers included in trade and other receivables 8.1 13.0 Included in current assets 8.1 12.5 Included in non-current assets 0.5 8.1 13.0 At 31 March 2015, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 2.8m 2014: 8.9m.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts include applications for payment from customers which have no fixed payment terms until invoiced.
Mitie Group plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 20 Mobilisation costs 2015 2014 Mobilisation costs m m At 1 April 30.3 23.2 Additions 19.6 15.7 Amounts recognised in the income statement 19.3 8.6 At 31 March 30.6 30.3 Included in current assets 12.4 13.7 Included in non-current assets 18.2 16.6 30.6 30.3 21 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period: Retirement Intangible Short-term Accelerated tax benefit assets timing depreciation obligations acquired Share options differences Tax losses Total m m m m m m m At 1 April 2013 0.4 6.9 12.8 0.9 4.3 1.9 0.8 Credit charge to income 0.5 2.0 4.0 0.3 1.2 1.8 0.8 Charge credit to equity and the statement of comprehensive income 1.1 0.5 0.6 1.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.5 0.8 0.3 At 1 April 2014 0.1 3.8 9.3 1.1 3.3 0.1 0.9 Credit charge to income 0.4 0.3 2.2 1.0 0.1 0.1 3.9 Charge credit to equity and the statement of comprehensive income 3.0 0.2 0.2 3.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.3 0.1 At 31 March 2015 0.5 7.1 7.5 1.9 3.9 5.9 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 13.4 8.4 Deferred tax liabilities 7.5 9.3 Net deferred tax asset liability 5.9 0.9 The group has unutilised income tax losses of 10.2m 2014: 8.5m that are available for offset against future profits.
In addition the group has 0.8m 2014: 0.8m of capital losses.
Mitie Group plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 22 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Work-in-progress 4.5 2.9 Materials 6.5 4.5 11.0 7.4 23 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents 96.4 89.1 96.4 89.1 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of the assets approximates their fair value.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are deposits totalling 0.9m 2014: 2.1m held by the groups insurance subsidiary, which are not readily available for the general purposes of the group.
24 Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Payments received on account 2.4 1.4 Trade creditors 201.8 186.9 Other taxes and social security 84.8 96.8 Other creditors 13.1 17.9 Accruals 132.1 190.3 Deferred income 41.8 32.3 Put options on non-controlling interests 8.0 484.0 525.6 Included in current liabilities 476.0 525.6 Included in non-current liabilities 8.0 484.0 525.6 Trade creditors, accruals and deferred income principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 44 days 2014: 46 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
The non-controlling interest shareholders of Source Eight Limited, in which Mitie bought a controlling interest during the year see Notes 26 and 32, have put options that can oblige the group to purchase their shareholdings.
A financial liability of 8.0m has been recognised in respect of the put options based on the present value of their expected redemption price.
The options are exercisable in tranches between 2017 and 2019.
The maximum amount payable is 12.5m.
Mitie Group plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 25 Financing liabilities 2015 2014 m m Bank loans 13.9 15.3 Private placement notes 263.6 245.2 Derivative financial instruments 10.3 Obligations under finance leases Note 28 3.5 4.9 281.0 275.7 Included in current liabilities 1.8 2.7 Included in non-current liabilities 279.2 273.0 281.0 275.7 The banking facilities and private placement notes are unsecured but have financial and non-financial covenants and obligations commonly associated with these arrangements.
Included in current liabilities are 1.8m 2014: 2.7m of obligations under finance leases see Note 28.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments and the private placement notes, all financing liabilities are held at amortised cost.
The Directors estimate that their carrying value approximates their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges for which hedge accounting can be applied see Note 26.
The carrying value of the private placement notes at 31 March 2015 includes a fair value adjustment for interest rate and currency risk of 0.9m 2014: 0.6m.
The fair value of the private placement notes is not significantly different from their carrying value.
Private placement notes On 13 December 2012, the group issued US$153.0m and 55.0m of private placement PP notes in the United States Private Placement market.
This followed the issue on 16 December 2010 of US$96.0m and 40.0m of PP notes in the United States Private Placement market.
The PP notes are unsecured and rank pari passu with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the group.
In order to manage the risk of foreign currency fluctuations and to manage the groups finance costs through a mix of fixed and variable rate debt, the group has entered into cross currency interest rate swaps.
The swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the borrowings and are considered to be highly effective.
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the PP notes are as shown below: Tranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap interest 7 year 16 December 2017 US$48.0m US$ fixed at 3.39% fixed at 3.88% 7 year 16 December 2017 US$48.0m US$ fixed at 3.39% LIBOR 1.26% 9 year 16 December 2019 40.0m fixed at 4.38% n a 10 year 16 December 2022 US$76.0m US$ fixed at 3.85% fixed at 4.05% 10 year 16 December 2022 US$77.0m US$ fixed at 3.85% fixed at 4.02% 10 year 16 December 2022 25.0m fixed at 3.87% n a 12 year 16 December 2024 30.0m fixed at 4.04% n a The weighted average interest rates paid during the year on the overdrafts and loans outstanding were as follows: 2015 2014 % % Overdrafts 2.7 2.5 Bank loans 1.5 1.9 Private placement notes 3.8 3.8 At 31 March 2015, the group had available 261.1m 2014: 234.7m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The facilities have an expiry date of July 2019.
The loans carry interest rates which are currently determined at 1.0% over LIBOR.
Details of the groups contingent liabilities are provided in Note 33.
Mitie Group plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 26 Financial instruments Classification The groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and financing assets.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, all financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
The groups principal financial liabilities are trade payables, financing liabilities and deferred contingent consideration.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, private placement notes and deferred contingent consideration, all financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments, and private placement loan notes are measured initially at fair value at the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges for which hedge accounting can be applied.
Deferred contingent consideration is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation.
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expense for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 1.
Risk management objectives The groups treasury function monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the group.
These risks include those arising from interest rates, foreign currencies, liquidity, credit and capital management.
The group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using effective control measures and, where appropriate, derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by group policies and reviewed regularly.
Group policy is not to trade in financial instruments.
The risk management policies remain unchanged from the previous year.
Interest rate risk The groups activities expose it to the financial risks of interest rates.
The groups Treasury function reviews its risk management strategy on a regular basis and will appropriately enter into derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate risk.
Having issued US$249.0m and 95.0m of notes in the US PP fixed rate market, the group has swapped US$48.0m into floating rate debt.
Details of derivative financial instruments are given in Derivative financial instruments below.
Interest rate sensitivity The interest rate sensitivity has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
All financial liabilities, other than financing liabilities, are interest free.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 March 2015 and reserves would decrease increase by 0.3m 2014: 0.2m.
Foreign currency risk The group has limited exposure to transactional foreign currency risk from trading transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of individual group entities and some exposure to translational foreign currency risk from the translation of its operations in Europe.
The group considers the need to hedge its exposures appropriately and will enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate any significant risks.
In addition, the group has fully hedged the US dollar exposure on its PP notes into sterling using cross currency interest rate swaps see Hedging activities below.
At 31 March 2015 5.5m 2014: 3.9m of cash and cash equivalents were held in foreign currencies.
Included in bank loans were 13.9m 2014: 15.3m of loans denominated in foreign currency.
Liquidity risk The group monitors its liquidity risk using a cash flow projection model which considers the maturity of the groups assets and liabilities and the projected cash flows from operations.
Bank facilities, which allow for appropriate headroom in the groups daily cash movements, are then arranged.
Details of our bank facilities can be found in Note 25.
Mitie Group plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 26 Financial instruments The tables below summarise the maturity profile including both undiscounted interest and principal cash flows of the groups financial liabilities: Within In the second After one year to fifth years five years Total Financial liabilities at 31 March 2015 m m m m Trade creditors 198.7 198.7 Financing liabilities 26.3 143.5 172.9 342.7 Put options on non-controlling interests 11.0 11.0 Deferred contingent consideration 4.9 6.5 11.4 Financial liabilities 229.9 161.0 172.9 563.8 Within In the second After one year to fifth years five years Total Financial liabilities at 31 March 2014 m m m m Trade creditors 186.9 186.9 Financing liabilities 12.8 115.3 216.7 344.8 Deferred contingent consideration 1.3 6.5 7.8 Financial liabilities 201.0 121.8 216.7 539.5 Credit risk The groups credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and formally reported quarterly.
The value of business placed with financial institutions is reviewed on a daily basis.
The groups credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies and are managed through regular review.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet in relation to the groups trade receivables are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
Before accepting a new customer, the group uses external credit scoring systems to assess the potential customers credit quality and define an appropriate credit limit which is reviewed regularly.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers the credit quality of the counterparty.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The Directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts at the balance sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the balance sheet date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The groups customer base is large and unrelated and, accordingly, the group does not have a significant concentration of credit risk with any one counterparty or group of counterparties.
Capital management risk The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity.
The capital structure of the group consists of net debt per Note 29 and equity per the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
In 2013, the Board approved a share purchase policy to maintain share numbers at a broadly consistent level year on year with the aim of ensuring that the interests of shareholders are not diluted by the issue of shares that support the groups various share schemes, nor by the issue of shares as consideration for earn outs under the Mitie model.
During the year, the group bought back nil 2014: 2.9m shares at a cost of nil 2014: 7.4m and subsequently cancelled these shares.
To offset shares issued under various share schemes and to hedge against shares to be issued in the future, 3.7m 2014: 5.8m shares were bought to be held in Treasury at a total cost of 10.7m 2014: 17.0m.
Further details are provided in Notes 30 and 31.
The group is not subject to externally imposed regulatory capital requirements with the exception of those applicable to the groups captive insurance subsidiary, which is monitored on a regular basis.
Mitie Group plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 26 Financial instruments Hedging activities Cash flow hedges The group holds a number of cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
Bi-annual fixed interest cash flows arising over the periods to December 2022 and denominated in US$ from the US Private Placement market are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in sterling.
The group also holds a number of forward exchange currency contracts designated as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions.
All cash flow hedges were assessed as being highly effective as at 31 March 2015.
Fair value hedges The group holds a number of cross currency interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US$ from the US Private Placement market are exchanged for floating interest cash flows denominated in sterling.
All fair value hedges were assessed as being highly effective as at 31 March 2015.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Included in bank loans at 31 March 2015 was a borrowing of 9.5m 2014: 9.5m which has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Republic of Ireland business of Dalkia FM in Ireland and is being used to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on this investment.
Gains or losses on the translation of the borrowing are transferred to equity to offset gains or losses on the translation of the net investment.
Derivative financial instruments The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date were as follows: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 3.7 9.7 Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 3.1 0.6 Derivative financial instruments hedging private placement notes 6.8 10.3 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated based on a discounted cash flow analysis using appropriate market information for the duration of the instruments.
Financial instruments fair value disclosure Fair value measurements are classified into three levels, depending on the degree to which the fair value is observable: a Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: a Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from other observable inputs for the asset or liability: and a Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
We consider that the derivative financial instruments fall into Level 2 and that deferred contingent consideration and put options on non-controlling interests fall into Level 3.
Deferred contingent consideration is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation based on the attainment of certain profit targets.
In assessing the likely future obligation, the directors have used their experience and knowledge of market conditions, alongside internal business plans and growth forecasts.
Actual amounts payable may vary up to a maximum of 11.4m 2014: 7.8m dependent upon the results of the acquired businesses.
The put options of non-controlling interests see Note 32 are measured at amortised cost based on the expected redemption value, which is determined by the Directors best estimate of the present value of the likely future obligation based on the attainment of certain profit targets.
The following table shows the reconciliation from the opening to closing balances for Level 3 fair values: Deferred Put options of contingent non-controlling consideration interests m m At 1 April 2014 7.8 Arising from business combinations in the period 1.1 Put options of non-controlling interests granted in the period 7.8 Movement of put options recognised in equity 0.2 Other amounts recognised through equity arising from transactions from non-controlling interests 2.5 At 31 March 2015 11.4 8.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
All contracts are gross settled.
Mitie Group plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 27 Provisions Deferred contingent Insurance consideration reserve Total m m m At 1 April 2014 7.8 2.2 10.0 Amounts recognised in the income statement 0.1 0.1 Amounts recognised through goodwill 1.1 1.1 Utilised within the captive insurance subsidiary 1.4 1.4 Amounts recognised through equity 2.5 2.5 At 31 March 2015 11.4 0.9 12.3 Included in current liabilities 4.9 Included in non-current liabilities 7.4 12.3 The provision for insurance claims represents amounts payable by Mitie Reinsurance Company Limited in respect of outstanding claims incurred at the balance sheet dates.
These amounts will become payable as each years claims are settled.
The deferred contingent consideration recognised through goodwill of 1.1m relates to the acquisitions of Procius Limited and Source Eight Limited see Note 32.
Amounts recognised through equity of 2.5m arises from transactions with non-controlling interests and comprises 3.8m in respect of the purchase of the remaining 49% in Direct Enquiries Holdings Limited net of a 1.3m release in respect of Mitie Security Holdings Limited see Note 32.
28 Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease payments Present value of lease payments 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 1.8 2.9 1.8 2.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.0 2.5 1.7 2.2 3.8 5.4 3.5 4.9 Less: future finance charges 0.3 0.5 Present value of lease obligations 3.5 4.9 3.5 4.9 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1.8 2.7 1.8 2.7 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1.7 2.2 1.7 2.2 The average remaining lease term is 17 months 2014: 52 months.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the average effective borrowing rate was 4.5% 2014: 2.5%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The groups obligations under finance leases are protected by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
Mitie Group plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 29 Analysis of net debt 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents Note 23 96.4 89.1 Bank loans Note 25 13.9 15.3 Private placement notes Note 25 263.6 245.2 Derivative financial instruments hedging private placement notes Note 26 6.8 10.3 Net debt before obligations under finance leases 174.3 181.7 Obligations under finance leases Note 28 3.5 4.9 Net debt 177.8 186.6 30 Share capital Number Ordinary shares of 2.5p million m Allotted and fully paid At 1 April 2014 373.5 9.3 Issued under share option schemes 1.7 0.1 At 31 March 2015 375.2 9.4 At 1 April 2013 370.1 9.3 Issued for acquisitions 2.3 Share buybacks 2.9 0.1 Issued under share option schemes 4.0 0.1 At 31 March 2014 373.5 9.3 During the year no 2014: 2.3m Ordinary shares of 2.5p were allotted in respect of the acquisition of non-controlling interests 2014: at a mid-market price of 267.0p giving rise to share premium of nil 2014: 2.4m and a merger reserve of nil 2014: 3.6m.
During the year no 2014: 2.9m Ordinary shares of 2.5p were purchased at a cost of nil 2014: 7.4m and subsequently cancelled.
During the year 1.7m 2014: 4.0m Ordinary shares of 2.5p were allotted in respect of share option schemes at a price between 127p and 260p 2014: 127p and 254p giving rise to share premium of 3.7m 2014: 8.5m.
31 Reserves Share premium account The share premium account represents the premium arising on the issue of equity shares see Note 30.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents amounts relating to premiums arising on shares issued subject to the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, 21.1m was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings following investment impairments and voluntary strike-offs of dormant companies see Note 42.
Share-based payment reserve The share-based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions that have not yet fully vested see Note 35.
Mitie Group plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 31 Reserves Own shares reserve The group uses shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the groups LTIP and SIP share option schemes.
During the year no shares 2014: 1.0m were purchased at a cost of nil 2014: 2.8m.
In addition, 3.7m 2014: 5.8m Treasury shares were purchased at a cost of 10.7m 2014: 17.0m and are held so that they can be reissued at a later date if required see details of Capital management risk in Note 26.
The own shares reserve at 31 March 2015 represents the cost of 17.5m 2014: 13.9m shares in Mitie Group plc, with a weighted average of 15.1m 2014: 11.1m shares during the year.
Other reserves Other reserves are comprised of the revaluation reserve of 0.2 m 2014: 0.2 m, the capital redemption reserve of 0.5m 2014: 0.5m and other reserves of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve of 6.4m 2014: 4.3m includes balances in respect of the groups cash flow hedges see Note 26 of 5.0m 2014: 3.8m.
The net cash flow hedge movement during the year of 1.2 m 2014: 2.0m is included within Other comprehensive income.
The hedging and translation reserve also includes balances arising on translation of the groups overseas operations and in respect of net investment hedges.
32 Acquisitions During the year a net cash outflow of 0.5m arose on the acquisitions set out below: m Procius Limited 2.0 Source Eight Limited 2.2 Direct Enquiries Holdings Limited 1.8 Mitie Security Holdings Limited 5.5 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 0.5 Current year acquisitions Entities acquired during the year contributed 3.7m to revenue and 0.6m to the groups headline operating profit for the period.
If the acquisitions had taken place at the start of the period, the groups headline revenue and operating profit would have been approximately 2,272m and 130m respectively.
The acquisitions enhanced our overall offering to clients.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the underlying profitability of the companies in the acquired group, expected profitability arising from new business and the anticipated future operating synergies arising from assimilation into Mitie.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Purchase of Procius Limited On 16 October 2014, Mitie acquired the leading UK pre-employment screening company Procius Limited Procius from the management team for a total consideration of 3.1m 2.3m on a cash free basis.
The transaction has been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3 2008.
The provisional information on the acquisition is provided below.
Purchase of Source Eight Limited On 26 November 2014, Mitie acquired a 51% stake in the real estate, technology and risk management consultancy Source Eight Limited Source8 for initial consideration of 2.5m paid in cash on completion and up to 0.8m of deferred contingent consideration.
Further cash consideration may be payable in respect of put options over the remaining 49% bringing total consideration for a 100% stake up to a maximum of 15.8m 15.5m on a cash free basis.
Mitie Group plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 32 Acquisitions Procius Source8 Total Fair value m m m Net assets acquired Intangible assets 1.0 0.9 1.9 Trade and other receivables 0.3 2.8 3.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.3 1.1 Trade and other payables 0.6 2.2 2.8 Corporation tax 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax liability 0.1 0.1 0.2 Net assets acquired 1.4 1.5 2.9 Non-controlling interests 0.7 0.7 Goodwill 1.7 2.5 4.2 Total consideration 3.1 3.3 6.4 Satisfied by Cash 2.8 2.5 5.3 Deferred contingent consideration 0.3 0.8 1.1 Total consideration 3.1 3.3 6.4 The non-controlling shareholders of Source8 have options to put their shareholding to Mitie Group plc.
Accordingly, a financial liability of 8.0m has been recognised and a corresponding entry has been recorded against retained earnings.
Purchase of non-controlling interests During the year Mitie purchased 49% of the share capital of Direct Enquiries Holdings Limited for a cash consideration of 5.6m of which 1.8m was paid in the current year and 3.8m was paid in April 2015.
In February 2015, Mitie reduced its original business valuation of the acquisition of Mitie Security Holdings Limited in March 2013, which resulted in a net cash inflow of 5.5m.
Mitie Group plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 32 Acquisitions Prior year acquisitions The provisional acquisition accounting for prior year acquisitions as disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed during the period resulting in a reduction of the fair value of net assets acquired of 1.5m and an increase of goodwill of 1.5m.
These adjustments comprise an adjustment to estimates made at the end of the prior year and within a year from the date of acquisition in line with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The adjustments have not materially changed the net assets of the group and therefore the 2014 comparative information has not been restated.
The final information on prior year acquisitions is shown below.
Purchase of Complete Care Holdings Limited On 15 January 2014, Mitie acquired the high acuity care provider Complete Care Holdings Limited Complete Group for a total consideration of 9.0m.
The provisional acquisition accounting in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed during the period resulting in a reduction of the fair value of net assets acquired of 1.5m and an increase in goodwill of 1.5m to 8.0m.
The final information on the acquisition is provided below: Fair value m Net assets acquired Intangible assets 2.1 Trade and other receivables 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 Trade and other payables 4.1 Net assets acquired 1.0 Goodwill 8.0 Total consideration 9.0 Satisfied by Cash 9.0 Total consideration 9.0 33 Contingent liabilities The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims that are in the ordinary course of business.
The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the groups financial position, other than as provided for in the accounts.
Deferred contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been accrued at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation of 11.4m 2014: 7.8m per Note 27.
This is the maximum amount payable subject to certain targets being attained.
In addition, the group and its subsidiaries have provided guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance, issued by financial institutions on its behalf, amounting to 28.9m 2014: 27.2m in the ordinary course of business.
These are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Mitie Group plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 34 Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee 2015 2014 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 25.8 27.7 At the balance sheet date, the group had total outstanding aggregate commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 15.0 22.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 21.8 35.0 After five years 2.7 4.8 39.5 62.2 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the group for certain of its office properties and hire of vehicles and other equipment.
These leases have average durations ranging from three to ten years.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
35 Share-based payments The Company has seven equity-settled share option schemes: Discretionary share plans: The Mitie Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2007.
The awards of shares or rights to acquire shares the awards are offered to a small number of key senior management.
Where offered as options the exercise price is nil.
The vesting period is three years.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of four years from the date of grant, the awards expire.
The awards may be forfeited if the employee leaves the group.
Before the awards can be exercised, performance conditions must be satisfied which are based on movements in a range of market and non-market measures over a three year period.
The group also awards performance-related bonuses for Executive Directors which are deferred in shares and are accounted for as a share-based payment charge.
The Mitie Group plc 2001 Executive share option scheme ESO The Executive share option scheme exercise price is equal to the average market value of the shares over the five day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the options expire.
Options may be forfeited if the employee leaves the group.
Before options can be exercised, a performance condition must be satisfied: the performance condition is linked to the percentage growth in earnings per share over a three year period.
The Mitie Group plc 2011 Executive share option scheme ESO The Executive share option scheme exercise price is equal to the average market value of the shares on the business day preceding grant or, if the Committee decides, the average market value of shares over a number of preceding business days not to exceed 20.
Mitie Group plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 35 Share-based payments The Conditional share plan CSP The CSP was introduced in 2014 and is a discretionary scheme.
The awards of shares or the rights to acquire shares the award are offered to a small number of key senior management.
The vesting period is determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and, for the 2014 scheme, was one year.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the awards expire.
Non-discretionary share plans: The Mitie Group plc 2001 SAYE scheme The SAYE scheme is open to all employees.
The exercise price is not less than 80% of the market value of the shares on the day preceding the date on which invitations to participate in the scheme are issued.
For options granted prior to September 2008, the vesting period is five years.
For options granted in September 2008 and thereafter, the vesting period is three years.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of six months from the date of vesting, the options expire.
The Mitie Group plc 2011 SAYE scheme The SAYE scheme is open to all employees.
The exercise price is not less than 80% of the market value of the shares determined using either: the share price preceding the date on which invitations to participate in the scheme are issued, or an average share price over five days preceding the invitation date.
The Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP was introduced in 2011 and is a non-discretionary scheme open to all eligible UK resident employees.
Under the scheme, eligible employees are invited to invest in Partnership Shares which are purchased in the market on their behalf and held in a UK employee benefit trust.
One Matching Share is awarded for every ten Partnership Shares purchased and has a holding period of three years.
Matching Shares are funded by way of market purchases.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price million p million p Outstanding at beginning of the year 20.3 138 21.1 142 Granted during the year 8.4 167 7.9 137 Forfeited during the year 4.8 77 3.2 121 Exercised during the year 1.8 203 5.5 158 Outstanding at the end of the year 22.1 157 20.3 138 Exercisable at the end of the year 2.4 220 2.0 204 The group recognised the following expenses related to share-based payments: 2015 2014 m m Discretionary share plans 5.4 4.5 Non-discretionary share plans 1.1 0.5 6.5 5.0 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 310p 2014: 290p.
The options outstanding at 31 March 2015 had exercise prices other than nil in the case of the LTIP, the CSP and the SIP ranging from 162p 318p 2014: 120p 254p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.0 years 2014: 4.3 years.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, options were granted in June, July and November 2014 in respect of the SAYE, LTIP, CSP and ESO schemes.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates was 6.9m.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, options were granted in June, July and November 2013 in respect of the SAYE, LTIP and ESO schemes.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates was 4.0m.
The fair value of options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models.
Mitie Group plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 35 Share-based payments The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 2015 2014 Share price p 219-313 219-274 Exercise price p 0-319 0-254 Expected volatility % 30-32 30-32 Expected life years 3-5 3-5 Risk-free rate % 0.55-1.48 0.55-1.48 Expected dividends % 3.5-4.1 3.5-4.1 The inputs into the Monte Carlo model are as follows: 2015 2014 Share price p 251-319 251 Average correlation with TSR benchmark % 29-32 32 Expected volatility % 21-24 24 Expected life years 3 3 Risk-free rate % 0.64-1.29 0.64 Expected dividends % 3.5-4.1 4.1 Expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes.
The expected life is based upon historical data and has been adjusted based on managements best estimates for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
36 Retirement benefit schemes The group has a number of pension arrangements for employees: a Defined contribution schemes for the majority of our employees: and b Defined benefit schemes which include a group scheme and other, smaller schemes.
The group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for qualifying employees.
In the year ended 2014, the group auto-enrolled eligible employees into a defined contribution scheme in line with the automatic enrolment regulations.
The group has a defined benefit pension scheme called the Mitie Group plc Pension Scheme Group scheme where Mitie Group plc is the principal employer.
The group participates in a number of other defined benefit schemes Other schemes in respect of certain employees who joined the group under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 TUPE.
Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to take at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that pension will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in do not perform in line with expectations are borne by the employee.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
The group operates three separate schemes: a stakeholder defined contribution plan, which is closed to new members: a self-invested personal pension plan, which is closed to new members: and a group personal pension GPP plan.
Employer contributions are payable to each on a matched basis requiring employee contributions to be paid.
Employees have the option to pay their share via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
The scheme used to satisfy auto-enrolment compliance is a master trust, The Peoples Pension.
During the year, the group made a total contribution to the defined contribution schemes of 10.7m 2014: 7.8m and contributions to the auto-enrolment scheme of 4.1m 2014: 2.6m, which are included in the income statement charge.
The group expects to make contributions of a similar amount in the coming year.
Mitie Group plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 36 Retirement benefit schemes Defined benefit schemes Group scheme The Group scheme provides benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their final pensionable pay.
The scheme closed to new members in 2006, with new employees able to join one of the defined contribution schemes.
Pensions in payment are generally increased in line with RPI inflation, subject to certain caps and floors.
Benefits are payable on death and other events such as withdrawal from active service.
The Group scheme is operated under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from the trust-administered fund, where the trust is responsible for ensuring that the scheme is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefit payments.
Plan assets are held in trust and are governed by pensions legislation.
If investment experience is worse than expected or the actuarial assessment of the schemes liabilities increases, the groups financial obligations to the scheme rise.
The nature of the relationship between the group and the Trustee is also governed by local regulations and practice.
The Trustee must agree a funding plan with the sponsoring company such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met by additional contributions and investment outperformance.
In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial valuations are carried out with the schemes obligations measured using prudent assumptions which are determined by the Trustee with advice from the scheme actuary.
The most recent triennial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2014.
The scheme Trustees other duties include managing the investment of the schemes assets, administration of plan benefits and exercising of discretionary powers.
The group works closely with the Trustees to manage the scheme.
Other defined benefit schemes Grouped together under Other schemes are a number of schemes to which the group makes contributions under Admitted Body status to clients generally government or local government entities defined benefit schemes in respect of certain employees who transferred to Mitie under TUPE.
The valuations of the Other schemes are updated by an actuary at each balance sheet date.
For the Admitted Body Schemes, which are largely sections of the Local Government Pension Scheme, the group will only participate for a finite period up to the end of the relevant contract.
The group is required to pay regular contributions as decided by the relevant scheme actuaries and detailed in each schemes Contributions Certificate which are calculated every three years as part of a triennial valuation.
In a number of cases contributions payable by the employer are capped and any excess is recovered from the entity that the employees transferred from.
In addition, in certain cases, at the end of the contract the group will be required to pay any deficit as determined by the scheme actuary that is assessed for its notional section of the scheme.
Further information in respect of the Group scheme and Other schemes The table below sets out the details of the latest funding valuation of the Group scheme as at 31 March 2014.
The group made a total contribution to the Group scheme of 2.8m during the year 2014: 3.2m.
The group expects to make contributions of around 2.5m to the Group scheme in the coming year.
Employees contribution to the cost of the scheme 7.5% of pensionable salaries is generally paid through a salary sacrifice arrangement.
The group made contributions to the Other schemes of 0.4m in the year 2014: 0.4m.
The group expects to make contributions of around 0.4m to the Other schemes in the coming year.
Details of latest funding valuation Group scheme Date of last formal funding valuation 31 March 2014 Assets at valuation date 143.6 million Funding liabilities at valuation date 149.6 million Deficit at valuation date 6.0 million Contribution rate agreed to meet the cost of benefits accruing, including related expenses 22.3% of pensionable salary Employer contribution rate including expenses 14.8% of pensionable salary Employee contribution rate 7.5% of pensionable salary To eliminate the funding deficit the Trustee and the group have agreed that additional contributions ie over and above those required to cover benefits being accrued will be paid into the scheme of 11.1m by 31 March 2024 or if less, the deficit at that time.
The group has provided security for this liability by a UK clearing bank letter of credit building up to that value to 2024.
Under this recovery plan, if the assumptions made are borne out in practice, the deficit will be eliminated by 31 March 2024.
Mitie Group plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 36 Retirement benefit schemes Group scheme details The following table sets out details of the membership of the Group scheme: Scheme details at last valuation date Group scheme Active members by number 349 Active members by proportion of funding liability 34% Total pensionable salary roll pa 16.9 m Deferred members by number 1,195 Deferred members by proportion of funding liability 47% Total deferred pensions pa at date of leaving scheme 3.6m Pensioner members by number 515 Pensioner members by proportion of funding liability 19% Total pensions in payment pa 1.9m Accounting assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the groups defined benefit pension schemes, as detailed below, are set after consultation with independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
The assumption for increases in pensionable pay takes into account expected salary inflation, the cap at CPI, and how often the cap is likely to be exceeded.
The assumptions for life expectancy have been set with reference to the actuarial tables used in the latest funding valuations, with a lower best-estimate allowance for future improvements to mortality.
Principal accounting assumptions at balance sheet dates Group scheme Other schemes 2015 2014 2015 2014 % % % % Key assumptions used for IAS 19 valuation: Discount rate 3.40 4.50 3.40 4.50 Expected rate of salary increases 1.65 2.00 1.65 2.00 Retail price inflation 3.05 3.40 3.05 3.40 Consumer price inflation 2.05 2.40 2.05 2.40 Future pension increases 3.05 3.40 3.05 3.40 Group scheme 2015 2014 Years Years Post retirement life expectancy: Current pensioners at 65 male 88.0 88.0 Current pensioners at 65 female 89.0 89.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 89.0 89.0 Future pensioners at 65 female 91.0 91.0 Life expectancy for the other schemes is that used by the relevant scheme actuary.
Mitie Group plc 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 36 Retirement benefit schemes The sensitivity of defined benefit obligations to changes in principal actuarial assumptions is shown below.
Amounts recognised in financial statements The table below outlines where the groups post-employment amounts are included in the financial statements.
2015 2014 Group scheme Other schemes Total Group scheme Other schemes Total m m m m m m Current service cost 3.2 0.3 3.5 3.6 0.4 4.0 Total administration expense 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 10.5 10.5 Amounts recognised in operating profit 3.7 0.3 4.0 6.5 0.4 6.1 Net interest cost 0.7 0.7 1.3 0.1 1.4 Amounts recognised in profit before tax 4.4 0.3 4.7 5.2 0.5 4.7 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2015 2014 Group scheme Other schemes Total Group scheme Other schemes Total m m m m m m Actuarial losses gains due to changes in financial assumptions 31.7 1.5 33.2 0.2 0.2 Actuarial gains losses due to changes in demographic assumptions 1.4 0.1 1.3 0.9 0.9 Actuarial gains losses due to liability experience 1.2 0.1 1.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Return on scheme assets, excluding interest income 13.0 0.6 13.6 3.5 0.3 3.2 Contract transfers 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.1 16.1 1.1 15.0 4.3 1.9 2.4 The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes are as follows: 2015 2014 Group scheme Other schemes Total Group scheme Other schemes Total m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 162.2 9.5 171.7 143.8 16.2 160.0 Present value of defined benefit obligations 197.1 10.4 207.5 160.8 18.3 179.1 Net pension liability 34.9 0.9 35.8 17.0 2.1 19.1 All figures above are shown before deferred tax.
Mitie Group plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 36 Retirement benefit schemes Reconciliation of group balance sheet The movement in the net defined benefit obligation in the year in respect of both the Group and Other schemes is as follows: 2015 2014 Group scheme Other schemes Total Group scheme Other schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 April 160.8 18.3 179.1 163.7 8.1 171.8 Current service cost 3.2 0.3 3.5 3.6 0.4 4.0 Interest cost 7.1 0.4 7.5 7.4 0.5 7.9 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Actuarial losses gains on liabilities arising from changes in financial assumptions 31.8 1.5 33.3 0.2 0.2 Actuarial gains losses liabilities arising from experience 1.2 0.1 1.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gains losses on liabilities arising from demographic assumptions 1.4 0.1 1.3 0.9 0.9 Benefits paid 3.3 0.2 3.5 2.8 0.2 3.0 Past service cost 10.5 10.5 Contract transfers 10.2 10.2 9.9 9.9 At 31 March 197.1 10.4 207.5 160.8 18.3 179.1 The defined benefit obligation of the Group scheme is analysed by participant status below: 2015 2014 m m Active 62.8 69.1 Deferred 86.1 49.9 Pensioners 48.2 41.8 At 31 March 197.1 160.8 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2015 2014 Group scheme Other schemes Total Group scheme Other schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 April 143.8 16.2 160.0 134.0 7.9 141.9 Interest income 6.4 0.4 6.8 6.0 0.5 6.5 Actuarial gains and losses 13.0 0.6 13.6 3.5 0.3 3.2 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 2.7 0.4 3.1 3.2 0.4 3.6 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Expenses paid 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 Benefits paid 3.3 0.2 3.5 2.7 0.2 2.9 Contract transfers 8.0 8.0 7.8 7.8 At 31 March 162.2 9.5 171.7 143.8 16.2 160.0 Mitie Group plc 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 36 Retirement benefit schemes The history of experience adjustments is as follows: Group scheme 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 162.2 143.8 134.0 120.7 114.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations 197.1 160.8 163.7 137.9 117.5 Deficit in the scheme 34.9 17.0 29.7 17.2 3.0 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 1.2 0.1 0.1 5.3 0.5 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.6 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 3.9% 0.4% Experience adjustments on scheme assets 13.0 3.6 3.9 4.3 0.7 Percentage of scheme assets 8.0% 2.5% 2.9% 3.6 % 0.6 % Other schemes 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 9.5 16.2 7.9 10.7 9.8 Present value of defined benefit obligations 10.4 18.3 8.1 10.8 9.8 Deficit in the scheme 0.9 2.1 0.2 0.1 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.9 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.9% 1.8 % 2.8 % 2.0 % 9.2 % Experience adjustments on scheme assets 0.8 0.3 0.5 0.2 1.3 Percentage of scheme assets 8.4% 1.9 % 6.1% 1.6% 13.3 % Asset categories 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Group Other Total Group Other Total Equities 61.1 6.1 67.2 55.7 9.9 65.6 Government bonds 22.8 1.0 23.8 16.0 2.4 18.4 Corporate bonds 19.2 1.0 20.2 15.8 2.4 18.2 Property 17.5 0.8 18.3 16.2 0.7 16.9 Diversified growth fund 41.3 41.3 36.9 36.9 Cash 0.3 0.6 0.9 3.2 0.8 4.0 Total fair value of assets 162.2 9.5 171.7 143.8 16.2 160.0 The investment portfolios are diversified, investing in a wide range of assets, in order to provide reasonable assurance that no single asset or type of asset could have a materially adverse impact on the total portfolio.
To reduce volatility, certain assets are held in a matching portfolio, which largely consists of government and corporate bonds, designed to mirror movements in corresponding liabilities.
Around 74% 2014: 75% of the assets are held in equities, property and pooled investment vehicles which seek a higher expected level of return over the long term.
7m 2014: 7m of the property assets represent freehold property, the rest are quoted property investments.
Mitie Group plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 36 Retirement benefit schemes The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation for the Group scheme to changes in the principal assumptions is shown in the table below: Sensitivity of defined benefit obligation to key assumptions Impact on defined benefit obligation Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption Discount rate 0.1% Decrease by 2.1% Increase by 2.1% RPI inflation 0.1% Increase by 1.6% Decrease by 1.4% CPI inflation excluding pay 0.1% Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 0.5% Pay increases 0.1% Increase by 0.4% Decrease by 0.4% Life expectancy 1 year Increase by 3.6% Including other inflation-linked assumptions CPI inflation, pension increases, salary growth The sensitivity information shown above has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting the results of the latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
Some of the above changes in assumptions may have an impact on the value of the schemes investment holdings.
For example, the Group scheme holds a proportion of its assets in UK corporate bonds.
A fall in the discount rate as a result of lower UK corporate bond yields would lead to an increase in the value of these assets, thus mitigating the increase in the defined benefit obligation to some extent.
The duration, or average term to payment for the benefits due, weighted by liability, is around 20 years for the Group scheme.
Risks and risk management The Group scheme, in common with the majority of UK plans, has a number of risks.
These areas of risk and the ways in which the group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table below.
The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the group, and from an accounting perspective, ie the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the groups financial statements: Risk Description Asset volatility The funding liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to government bond yields, with allowance for additional return to be generated from the investment portfolio.
The defined benefit obligation for accounting is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
The Group scheme holds a large proportion of its assets around 74% in equities and other return-seeking assets principally diversified growth funds DGFs and property.
The returns on such assets tend to be volatile and are not correlated to government bonds.
This means that the funding level has the potential to be volatile in the short term, potentially resulting in short-term cash requirements or alternative security offers which are acceptable to the Trustee and an increase in the net defined benefit liability recorded on the groups balance sheet.
The group believes that equities and DGFs offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk and hence holds a significant proportion of these types of asset.
However, the schemes assets are well-diversified by investing in a range of asset classes, including property, government bonds and corporate bonds.
The Group scheme holds 25% of its assets in DGFs which seek to maintain high levels of return whilst achieving lower volatility than direct equity funds.
The allocation to return seeking assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the schemes long-term objectives.
The investment in bonds is discussed further below.
Changes in Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in corporate bond yields and government bonds offers a degree of matching, ie the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement in the funding or accounting liabilities.
In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
Mitie Group plc 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 36 Retirement benefit schemes Risk Description Inflation risk The majority of the schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation.
Higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the Group schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with inflation equities, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member, so unexpected increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
Areas of risk management Although investment decisions in the scheme are the responsibility of the Trustee, the group takes an active interest to ensure that pension plan risks are managed efficiently.
The group and Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk where appropriate.
Certain benefits payable on death before retirement are insured.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 following a strategic review of the Group scheme, a cap on increases in pensionable pay was introduced, significantly reducing the risk of salary increases increasing the liability associated with past and future benefits.
37 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
During the year, the group derived 0.3m 2014: 10.5m of revenue from contracts with joint ventures and associated undertakings.
At 31 March 2015 trade and other receivables of nil 2014: 7.5m were outstanding and loans to joint ventures and associates of 1.1m 2014: 14.8m were included in Financing assets.
Mitie Group plc has a related party relationship with the Mitie Foundation, a charitable company, as R McGregor-Smith and S C Baxter are two of the trustees of the Foundation.
During the year, the group made donations of 25,000 2014: 63,000 and gifts in kind of 277,000 2014: 298,000 to the Foundation.
At the end of the year 23,000 2014: 17,000 was due to the Foundation and the Foundation had 11,000 2014: 3,000 held within creditors as an amount accrued to Mitie Group plc.
No material contract or arrangement has been entered into during the year, nor existed at the end of the year, in which a Director had a material interest.
The groups key management personnel are the directors and Non-Executive Directors whose remuneration is disclosed in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report.
The share-based payment charge for key management personnel was 1.6m 2014: 1.5m.
Mitie Group plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 38 Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 2015 2014 Headline Other items Total Headline Other items Total m m m m m m Operating profit loss 128.6 72.6 56.0 127.5 44.9 82.6 Adjustments for: Share-based payment expense 6.5 6.5 5.0 5.0 Defined benefit pension charge credit 4.0 4.0 4.4 10.5 6.1 Defined benefit pension contributions 3.1 3.1 3.6 3.6 Acquisition related items 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19.7 19.7 16.1 16.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.7 10.1 13.8 5.2 11.8 17.0 Other non-cash movements in Other items 19.0 19.0 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 159.0 43.2 115.8 153.4 42.9 110.5 Increase in inventories 3.8 3.8 0.8 0.8 Decrease increase in receivables 36.6 16.8 53.4 2.4 2.4 Decrease increase in payables 45.9 5.0 50.9 2.2 14.6 16.8 Decrease in provisions 1.3 1.3 Cash generated by operations 144.6 31.4 113.2 152.4 28.3 124.1 Cash conversion Operating profit 128.6 56.0 127.5 82.6 Depreciation 19.7 19.7 16.1 16.1 Amortisation 3.7 13.8 5.2 17.0 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA 152.0 89.5 148.8 115.7 1 Cash conversion 95.1% 126.5% 102.4% 107.3% Free cash flow Cash generated by operations 113.2 124.1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 23.0 20.6 Purchase of other intangible assets 3.9 6.2 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 1.8 6.0 Income taxes paid 15.5 18.2 Interest paid including facility extension fees 15.1 13.1 Free cash flow 57.5 72.0 1 Cash conversion is calculated as cash generated by operations as a percentage of EBITDA Mitie Group plc 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 39 Principal subsidiaries The companies set out below are those which were part of the group at 31 March 2015 and in the opinion of the directors significantly affected the groups results and net assets during the year.
Principal subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom and are held directly or indirectly by Mitie Group plc.
At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March 2015 2015 2015 % Voting % Ownership % Nominal Division Activities Principal subsidiaries rights owned interest value owned Soft FM Soft FM includes cleaning Mitie Facilities Services Ltd 100% 100% 100% and environmental services, Mitie Cleaning & Environmental 100% 100% 100% security, catering and front Services Ltd of house services.
Mitie Landscapes Ltd 100% 100% 100% Mitie Security Holdings Ltd 100% 100% 100% Mitie PFI Ltd 100% 100% 100% Hard FM Hard FM includes a range of Mitie Technical Facilities 90.3% 90.3% 99.85% technical and building services.
Management Ltd Property Property management provides Mitie Property Services UK Ltd 100% 100% 100% Management long-term contract solutions to a range of clients in the domestic housing market.
Energy Solutions Our Energy Solution division Utilyx Ltd 100% 100% 100% provides energy consultancy to clients.
Healthcare Healthcare provides homecare MiHomecare Ltd 100% 100% 100% also known as adult social care services to people who require help and support due to illness or disability.
No subsidiaries have non-controlling interests that are material to the group.
Whilst the group has 90.3% voting rights and ownership interest in Mitie Technical Facilities Management Limited, Mitie is entitled to a threshold amount of profit and net assets in the recapitalised business which reduces the non-controlling interests.
The companies listed above represent the principal subsidiary companies of the group.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be annexed to the next Annual Return.
Mitie Group plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
