Corporate governance report During the year the key activities of the Boards included: Financial performance Following reports from the audit committee, the Boards have reviewed and approved the full and half-yearly results and associated announcements and also the interim management statements.
In addition, the Boards have reviewed the feedback from investors and analysts following the roadshows undertaken by management after the release of these results.
Again following reports from the audit committee, the Boards have reviewed and approved the Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements, ensuring they present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects see page 98 for more information.
Dividend recommendations and declarations have been considered in light of the Groups stated dividend policy, financial performance and strong cash generation.
At every meeting the chief financial officer provided an update on the Groups current trading performance which highlighted the Groups and individual business unit financial performance against the agreed budget and latest forecasts.
The Group business plan for 2016-2018 and the budget for 2016 were reviewed, supported by presentations from the chief financial officer and Group financial controller, with the Boards considering the assumptions made and the reasonableness of the plan, focusing on the operational overviews, cash flow management and capital allocation.
Annual reviews of Group treasury and of the Groups tax management practices were undertaken including updates on the funding position, longer-term plans as well as consideration of the maintenance of the Groups investment grade credit ratings, renewal of the EMTN programme and revolving multicurrency credit facility.
Operational performance The chief executive officer provided a report to the Boards at each meeting highlighting developments in the markets in which we operate, outlining the current operations and flagging any areas of management focus as well as providing a high-level overview of the projects and financial performance.
These reports are taken at the start of each meeting to provide the Boards with an overview of any areas of focus for the meeting.
At every meeting the Boards received a report on safety performance and serious incidents, providing an update on performance against the milestones agreed for the year with breakdowns by business unit.
These reports also included a focus on safety performance for each material mill enabling the Boards to identify any particular areas of concern.
The directors were saddened by the fatality at Syktyvkar Russia and oversaw managements response to the incident and the support provided to the family.
At regular intervals throughout the year the Boards received detailed presentations on the trends in the Europe & International Division and South Africa Division, providing more in-depth reviews of each business and enabling the directors to obtain a clear picture of the markets, pricing and performance.
The Boards received an update on the Groups US Industrial Bags and Consumer Packaging businesses, including a post investment review of the bags and kraft paper business acquired from Graphic Packaging International, Inc. in 2014 and actions and initiatives for the continuous improvement of the US operations.
At every meeting the Boards received an update report on each of the material capital investment projects in progress, enabling adequate oversight of the robustness of the project planning and budgeting.
Governance Following a report from the nominations committee, the Boards reviewed and approved the renewal of the term of office of John Nicholas as he had reached his six-year term see page 86 for more information.
Following recommendation from the nominations committee, the Boards considered and approved the appointment of Dominique Reiniche as an independent non-executive director see page 91 for more information.
Following recommendation from the audit committee, the Boards reviewed the external audit tender process and approved the change of the Groups auditor from Deloitte to  PwC after completion of the 2016 audit and subject to shareholder approval see pages 99 and 100 for more information.
80 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
