Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Office building The Group entered into an office building lease agreement for a total term of 20 years from October 2013.
The lease may be terminated upon six months notice to September 2023 and again to September 2028.
Rent escalates on an annual basis by the consumer price index of the local jurisdiction.
The lease does not contain any option to purchase the building at the end of the lease term and does not impose any significant restrictions on the lessee.
Contingent rent is included in the lease charge and calculated at the consumer price index.
Other The Group has also entered into approximately 880 2014: 850 lease agreements, none of which are individually significant.
The operating lease expense recorded in the Groups combined and consolidated income statement was 39 million 2014: 36 million.
As at 31 December, the Group had the following outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 Land, buildings Land, buildings and other and other million Forestry assets assets Forestry assets assets Within one year 3 22 3 25 One to two years 3 18 3 21 Two to five years 9 30 10 32 After five years 77 24 91 30 Total operating leases 92 94 107 108 30 Financial instruments The Groups trading and financing activities expose it to various financial risks that, if left unmanaged, could adversely impact current or future earnings.
Although not necessarily mutually exclusive, these financial risks are categorised separately according to their different generic risk characteristics and include market risk foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is actively engaged in the management of all of these financial risks in order to minimise their potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The principles, practices and procedures governing the Group-wide financial risk management process have been approved by the Boards and are overseen by the DLC executive committee.
In turn, the DLC executive committee delegates authority to a central treasury function Group treasury for the practical implementation of the financial risk management process across the Group and for ensuring that the Groups entities adhere to specified financial risk management policies.
Group treasury continually reassesses and reports on the financial risk environment: identifying, evaluating and hedging financial risks by entering into derivative contracts with counterparties where appropriate.
The Group does not take speculative positions on derivative contracts and only enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings.
a Financial instruments by category At fair value AvailableFair value Loans and through profit At fair value for-sale 2015 million hierarchy receivables or loss through OCI investments Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 908 908 Financial asset investments Level 2 7 18 25 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 13 13 Cash and cash equivalents 64 64 Total 979 13 18 1,010 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 181 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 30 Financial instruments continued At fair value AvailableFair value Loans and through profit At fair value for-sale 2014 million hierarchy receivables or loss through OCI investments Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 873 873 Financial asset investments Level 2 8 18 26 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 66 10 76 Cash and cash equivalents 56 56 Total 937 66 10 18 1,031 At fair value Fair value through profit At amortised 2015 million hierarchy or loss cost Total Financial liabilities Borrowings bonds Level 1 996 996 Borrowings loans and overdrafts Level 2 573 573 Trade and other payables 977 977 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 7 7 Other non-current liabilities Level 2 17 17 Total 7 2,563 2,570 At fair value Fair value through profit At amortised 2014 million hierarchy or loss cost Total Financial liabilities Borrowings bonds Level 1 995 995 Borrowings loans and overdrafts Level 2 746 746 Trade and other payables 942 942 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 6 6 Other non-current liabilities Level 2 21 21 Total 6 2,704 2,710 The fair values of available-for-sale investments represent the published prices of the securities concerned.
Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost.
The fair value of loans and receivables approximate the carrying values presented.
b Fair value measurement Financial instruments that are measured in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position at fair value, or where the fair value of financial instruments have been disclosed in notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements, are based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The Group does not hold any financial instruments categorised as level 3 financial instruments.
The only assets measured at fair value onlevel 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy are the Groups forestry assets as set out in note 13.
There have also been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives are determined using generally accepted valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where available and rely as little as possible on Group specific estimates.
182 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Specific valuation methodologies used to value financial instruments include: the fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable yield curves and exchange rates: the Groups commodity price derivatives are valued by independent third parties, who in turn calculate the fair values as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable market data: and other techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine the fair values of other financial instruments.
Except as detailed in the following table, the directors consider that the carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the combined and consolidated financial statements are approximately equal to their fair values.
Carrying amount Fair value million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Financial liabilities Borrowings 1,569 1,741 1,653 1,852 c Financial risk management Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Both risks are actively monitored on a regular basis and managed through the use of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps as appropriate.
Although the Groups cash flows are exposed to movements in key input and output prices, such movements represent commercial rather than financial risk inherent to the Group.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates globally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the normal course of its business.
Multiple currency exposures arise from commercial transactions denominated in foreign currencies, recognised financial assets and liabilities monetary items denominated in foreign currencies and translational exposure on net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange contracts The Groups treasury policy requires subsidiaries to actively manage foreign currency transactional exposures against their functional currencies by entering into foreign exchange contracts.
For segmental reporting purposes, each subsidiary enters into, and accounts for, foreign exchange contracts with Group treasury or with counterparties that are external to the Group, whichever is more commercially appropriate.
Only material balance sheet exposures and highly probable forecast capital expenditure transactions are hedged.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Foreign exchange risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on the foreign currency exposures inherent in the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at the reporting dates presented, net of related foreign exchange contracts.
The sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the Groups reported earnings of reasonably possible changes in the currency exposures embedded within the functional currency environments that the Group operates in.
In addition, an indication is provided of how reasonably possible changes in foreign exchange rates might impact on the Groups equity, as a result of fair value adjustments to foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
Reasonably possible changes are based on an analysis of historic currency volatility, together with any relevant assumptions regarding near-term future volatility.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 183 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 30 Financial instruments continued Net monetary foreign currency exposures by functional currency zone 1 Net monetary foreign currency exposures assets liabilities 2015 2014 million EUR Other EUR Other 2 Functional currency zones Euro 1 14 South African rand 3 1 1 2 Pounds sterling 1 1 Czech koruna 13 11 Polish zloty 1 14 Russian rouble 21 3 2 Turkish lira 4 3 2 US dollar 4 7 Other 43 4 57 12 Notes: 1 Presented in euro, the presentation currency of the Group.
2 Net monetary exposures represent financial assets less financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency, adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange risk hedging, excluding cash flow hedging of non-monetary assets and liabilities.
Resultant impacts of reasonably possible changes to foreign exchange rates The Group believes that for each functional to foreign currency net monetary exposure it is reasonable to assume a 5% appreciation depreciation of the functional currency.
If all other variables are held constant, the table below presents the impacts on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement if these currency movements had occurred.
Income expense 2015 2014 million 5% -5% 5% -5% Functional currency zones Czech koruna 1 1 1 1 Euro 1 1 Polish zloty 1 1 Russian rouble 1 1 Other 2 2 2 2 The corresponding fair value impact on the Groups equity, resulting from the application of these reasonably possible changes to the valuation of the Groups foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, would have been 1 million 2014: 3million.
It has been assumed that changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of non-monetary assets and liabilities are fully recorded in equity and that all other variables are held constant.
Interest rate risk The Group holds cash and cash equivalents, which earn interest at a variable rate and has variable and fixed rate debt in issue.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to interest rate risk.
Although the Group has fixed rate debt in issue, the Groups accounting policy stipulates that all borrowings be held at amortised cost.
As a result, the carrying value of fixed rate debt is not sensitive to changes in credit conditions in the relevant debt markets and there is therefore no exposure to fair value interest rate risk.
Management of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with short-term highly liquid investments which have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Centralised cash pooling arrangements are in place, which ensure that cash is utilised most efficiently for the ongoing working capital needs of the Groups operating units and, in addition, to ensure that the Group earns the most advantageous rates of interest available.
184 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Management of variable rate debt The Group has multiple variable rate debt facilities, of which the most significant is the syndicated facility RCF see note 18.
When deemed necessary, Group treasury uses interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures to movements in the relevant interbank lending rates, primarily the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate JIBAR.
Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges and are measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to the discounted contractual future cash flows, using the relevant currency-specific yield curves, and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents act as a natural hedge to movements in the relevant interbank lending rates on its variable rate debt, subject to any interest rate differentials that exist between the Groups corporate saving and lending rates.
Net variable rate debt sensitivity analysis The net variable rate exposure represents variable rate debt less the future cash outflows swapped from variable-to-fixed via interest rate swap instruments and cash and cash equivalents.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates have been applied to net variable rate exposure, denominated by currency, in order to provide an indication of the possible impact on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement.
Interest rate risk sensitivities on variable rate debt and interest rate swaps Interest rate risk exposures 2015 2014 million EUR GBP Other Total EUR GBP Other Total Total debt 1,280 159 130 1,569 1,198 355 188 1,741 Less: Fixed rate debt 1,002 12 1,014 999 6 1,005 Cash and cash equivalents 6 58 64 10 46 56 Net variable rate debt and exposure 272 159 60 491 189 355 136 680 Included in other is net variable exposure to various currencies, the most significant of which are ZAR, PLN and TRY.
The Group did not have any outstanding interest rate swaps at 31 December 2015.
The potential impact on the Groups combined and consolidated equity resulting from the application of 50 basis points to the variable interest rate exposure would be 2 million 2014: 3 million.
In addition to the above, the Group swaps euro and sterling debt into other currencies through the foreign exchange market using foreign exchange contracts which has the effect of exposing the Group to interest rates of these currencies.
The currencies swapped into out of and the amounts as at 31 December were as follows: million 2015 2014 Short-dated contracts with tenures of less than 12 months Pounds sterling 148 322 Czech koruna 200 179 Polish zloty 250 198 Russian rouble 86 141 Swedish krona 42 50 US dollar 104 67 Other 57 41 Total swapped 591 354 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 185 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 30 Financial instruments continued Credit risk The Groups credit risk is mainly confined to the risk of customers defaulting on sales invoices raised.
The Groups exposure to the credit risk inherent in its trade receivables and the associated risk management techniques that the Group deploys in order to mitigate this risk are discussed in note 15.
Several Group entities have also issued certain financial guarantees to external counterparties in order to achieve competitive funding rates for specific debt agreements entered into by other Group entities.
None of these financial guarantees contractually obligates the Group to pay more than the recognised financial liabilities in the entities concerned.
As a result, these financial guarantee contracts have no bearing on the credit risk profile of the Group as a whole.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could experience difficulties in meeting its commitments to creditors as financial liabilities fall due for payment.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by using reasonable and retrospectively assessed assumptions to forecast the future cashgenerative capabilities and working capital requirements of the businesses it operates and by maintaining sufficient reserves, committed borrowing facilities and other credit lines as appropriate.
The following table shows the amounts available to draw down on the Groups committed loan facilities: million 2015 2014 Expiry date Within one year 5 59 Two to five years 593 397 Total credit available 598 456 Forecast liquidity represents the Groups expected cash inflows, principally generated from sales made to customers, less the Groups expected cash outflows, principally related to the payment of employees, supplier payments and the repayment of borrowings plus the payment of any interest accruing thereon.
The matching of these cash inflows and outflows rests on the expected ageing profiles of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Short-term financial assets and financial liabilities are primarily represented by the Groups trade receivables and trade payables.
The matching of the cash flows that result from trade receivables and trade payables typically takes place over a period of three to four months from recognition in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position and is managed to ensure the ongoing operating liquidity of the Group.
Financing cash outflows may be longer-term in nature.
The Group does not hold long-term financial assets to match against these commitments, but is significantly invested in long-term non-financial assets which generate the sustainable future cash inflows, net of future capital expenditure requirements, needed to service and repay the Groups borrowings.
d Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value.
At 31 December 2015, the Group recognised total derivative assets of 13million 2014: 76 million and derivative liabilities of 7 million 2014: 6 million.
The full net 6 million 2014: 70million matures within one year.
The notional amount of 1,259 million 2014: 1,433 million is the aggregate face value of all derivatives outstanding at the reporting date.
They do not indicate the contractual future cash flows of the derivative instruments held or their current fair value and therefore do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or market risks.
Of the 1,259 million 2014: 1,433 million aggregate notional amount, 842 million 2014:739 million relates to the economic hedging of foreign exchange exposures on short-term inter-company funding balances, which are fully eliminated on consolidation.
Hedging Cash flow hedges The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments as cash flow hedges.
The fair value gains losses are reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to profit and loss in the period when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
For non-current nonfinancial assets, these gains losses are included in the carrying value of the asset and depreciated over the same useful life as the cost ofthe asset.
Fair value losses of 2 million 2014: nil were reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to Property, plant and equipment during the current or prior year.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss arising on cash flow hedges for both the years presented.
186 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
