Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary of terms This report contains a number of terms which are explained below: CoC Chain-of-Custody CoC is a tracking system that allows manufacturers and traders to demonstrate that wood comes from a forest that is responsibly managed in accordance with credible standards.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organisation established in 1993 to promote socially and environmentally responsible management of the worlds forests by way of standard setting, third-party certification and labelling of forest products.
GHG Greenhouse gases GHGs are gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UN-FCCC that contribute to thegreenhouse effect and are regulated by the Kyoto Protocol.
GRI The Global Reporting Initiative GRI is a not-for-profit organisation that produces one of the worlds most prevalent frameworks for sustainability reporting.
Net debt A measure comprising short, medium, and long-term interest-bearing borrowings and the fair value of debt-related derivatives less cash and cash equivalents and current financial asset investments.
Return on capital employed ROCE Trailing 12-month underlying operating profit, including share of associates net profit, divided by trailing 12-month average capital employed and for segments has been extracted from management reports.
Capital employed is adjusted for impairments in the year and spend on those strategic projects which are not yet in production.
Special items Those non-recurring financial items which the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the combined and consolidated income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
TRCR Total recordable case rate TRCR is calculated as the number of total recordable cases the sum of fatalities, lost-time injuries, restricted work cases, medical treatment cases and compensated occupational illnesses divided by the number of hours worked per 200,000 man hours.
TRS Total reduced sulphur compounds, generated in the pulping process, and a source of emissions to air.
Underlying EBITDA Operating profit before special items, depreciation and amortisation.
Underlying operating profit Operating profit before special items.
Underlying profit before tax Reported profit before tax and special items.
Underlying earnings Net profit after tax before special items attributable to shareholders.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Forward-looking statements This document includes forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein, including, without limitation, those regarding Mondis financial position, business strategy, market growth and developments, expectations of growth and profitability and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned or anticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Mondi, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements and other statements contained in this document regarding matters that are not historical facts involve predictions and are based on numerous assumptions regarding Mondis present and future business strategies and the environment in which Mondi will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved: various factors could cause actual future results, performance or events to differ materially from those described in these statements.
Such factors include in particular but without any limitation: 1 operating factors, such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development plans and targets, changes in the degree of protection created by Mondis patents and other intellectual property rights and the availability of capital on acceptable terms: 2 industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for Mondis products and raw materials and the pricing pressures thereto, financial condition of the customers, suppliers and the competitors of Mondi and potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors: and 3 general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in Mondis principal geographical markets or fluctuations of exchange rates and interest rates.
Mondi expressly disclaims a any warranty or liability as to accuracy or completeness of the information provided herein: and b any obligation or undertaking to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to update any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in Mondis expectations or any events that occur or circumstances that arise after the date of making any forward-looking statements, unless required to do so by applicable law or any regulatory body applicable to Mondi, including the JSE Limited and the LSE.
This document includes market share estimates prepared by the Group based on industry publications and management estimates.
Main industry publication sources are: RISI, POYRY, Eurosac, HenryPoole Consulting, Freedonia, EMGE, Eurograph delivery statistics, Pyrabelisk and AlexanderWatson Associates.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Mondi investor relations 4th Floor, No.
3 Melrose Boulevard Melrose Arch, Johannesburg 2196, South Africa ir@mondigroup.
com Our 2015 suite of reports Please visit our online reporting hub where copies of our reports can be downloaded: www.
com reports15 Mondi Group Sustainable development report 2015 Mondi Group Mondi Group Integrated report and Looking back, moving forward financial statements 2015 Sustainable development 2015 Integrated report and Looking back, moving forward: Online Sustainable financial statements 2015 Sustainable development 2015 development report 2015 A balanced overview of Mondis A printed publication reflecting A comprehensive view of performance in 2015 and insight on the progress made over the our approach to sustainable into how our approach to strategy, last five years since the launch development and our performance Printed on FSC certified Mondi governance, people and of our second set of sustainable in 2015, prepared in accordance MAESTRO PRINT in 250gsm, performance combine to generate development commitments.
with the GRI G4 core guidelines.
120gsm and 80gsm value in a sustainable way.
Also available as a downloadable Available online as an interactive Also available online at pdf at www.
com sd15 Printing: CPI Colour | www.
com ir15 sdpublication15 Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
