Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Basis of preparation Dual listed structure The Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, which operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi Limited and its subsidiaries, and Mondi plc and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single reporting entity.
The Groups combined and consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in note 34.
There are no differences for the Group in applying IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore the Group also complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The combined and consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Strategic report under Principal risks under the heading Going concern.
Critical accounting judgements and key estimates The preparation of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions which affect certain items reported in the combined and consolidated financial statements.
The disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities is also affected by the use of estimation techniques.
Although the estimates used are based on managements best information about current circumstances and future events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Such estimates relate to managements assumptions about expected future cash flows, market exposures, useful lives and discount rates, among others.
The estimates and assumptions that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Critical accounting judgements Estimated impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets refer to notes 10, 11 and 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets arising from accumulated tax losses and expected future utilisation of these losses refer to note 7 Key estimates Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment estimated residual values and useful economic lives refer to notes 10 and 34 Fair value of forestry assets refer to note 13 Retirement benefits refer to note 22 Business combinations refer to notes 23 and 34 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to improve the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Such items exceed 5 million or are material in nature.
Subsequent adjustments to amounts previously recognised as special items continue to be reflected as special items in future periods even if they do not exceed 5 million.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 151
