OV OVe eR RV Viie eW W S St tR Ra ate teG GiiC C R Re eP PO OR Rt t G GO OV five eR RN Na aN NC Ce e f fiiN Na aN NC Ciia al l S St ta ate tem me eN Nt tS S Financial StatementS 165 CautiONaRY StatemeNt this document has been prepared for and this document contains forward-looking it is believed that the expectations reflected only for the members of the Company as statements that are subject to risk factors in these statements are reasonable but they a body and no other persons.
its purpose associated with, amongst other things, may be affected by a wide range of such is to assist members to assess how the the economic and business circumstances variables.
No assurances can be given that Directors have performed their duties, occurring from time to time in the countries, the forward-looking statements in this the Companys strategies and the potential sectors and markets in which the Group document will be realised.
the forwardfor those strategies to succeed and for no operates.
these and other factors could looking statements reflect the knowledge other purpose.
Save as would otherwise adversely affect the outcome and financial and information available at the date this arise under english law, the Company, its effects of the plans and events described.
document was prepared and will not be Directors, employees, agents or advisers forward-looking statements by their nature updated during the year but will be do not accept or assume responsibility or involve a number of risks, uncertainties and considered in the annual Report for next liability to any third parties to whom this assumptions because they relate to events year.
Nothing in this document should be document is shown or into whose hands and or depend on circumstances that may construed as a profit forecast.
it may come and any such responsibility or may not occur in the future and could or liability is expressly disclaimed.
cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
