Notes to the Group Accounts 19 Derivative financial instruments At the balance sheet date, details of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the group has committed to are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Notional amount Sterling contract value 33.9 32.2 Fair value of asset liability recognised 1.1 1.6 Changes in the fair value of assets liabilities recognised, being non-hedging currency derivatives, amounted to a credit of 2.7m 2014, charge of 2.8m to income in the period.
The financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are all grouped into Level 2 2014, same.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year 2014, same.
20 Financial instruments Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 25 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 23 to 24 and the statement of changes in equity.
Gearing ratio The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Debt 287.0 259.0 Cash and cash equivalents 40.4 45.3 Net Debt 246.6 213.7 Equity 496.6 485.3 Gearing ratio 50% 44% Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 18.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the group attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Externally imposed capital requirement The group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2.
Financial risk management objectives The financial risks facing the group include currency risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The group seeks to minimise the effects of certain of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these risk exposures as governed by the groups policies.
The group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Foreign currency risk management The group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments for the purchase of overseas sourced products.
Group policy allows for these exposures to be hedged for up to three years ahead.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71
