Notes to the Group Accounts 1 General information Amendments to IFRS 11 May 2014 : Accounting period Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Throughout the accounts, the directors Joint Operations.
N Brown Group plc is a company report and financial review, reference to incorporated in the United Kingdom under IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts.
2015 means at 28 February 2015 or the the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the 52 weeks then ended: reference to 2014 The directors do not expect that the adoption registered office is listed at the end of the means at 1 March 2014 or the 52 weeks of the standards listed above will have a report.
The nature of the groups operations then ended unless otherwise stated.
material impact on the financial statements and its principal activities are set out on page of the group in future periods, except as Basis of consolidation 17 of the directors report.
follows: The consolidated financial statements These financial statements are presented in IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement incorporate the financial statements pounds sterling because that is the currency and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
of the company and entities controlled of the primary economic environment by the company its subsidiaries made Discontinued operations in which the group operates.
Foreign up to the Saturday that falls closest to operations are included in accordance with Discontinued operations are those which 28 February each year.
The Employee the policies set out in note 2. management identify separately and Share Ownership Trust is also made up where notice has been given that they are The group s financial statements for to a date coterminous with the financial to be discontinued.
As a result of notice the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 period of the parent company.
being given regarding the closure of Gray have been prepared in accordance with The results of subsidiaries acquired or & Osbourn as detailed in note 5, the prior International Financial Reporting Standards disposed of during the period are included year income statement has been restated IFRS as adopted for use in the EU.
in the consolidated income statement to exclude the results of Gray & Osbourn The accounting policies have been applied from the effective date of acquisition or under continuing activities.
consistently in the current and prior periods, up to the effective date of disposal, as 2 Accounting policies other than that as set out below.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern Adoption of new and revised Standards the financial and operating policies of an Adoption of International Financial No standards have been adopted that affect investee entity so as to obtain benefits from Reporting and Accounting Standards the reported results or financial position.
Where necessary, adjustments IFRS are made to the financial statements of At the date of authorisation of these financial The group has adopted Standards and subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies statements, the following Standards and Interpretations issued by the International used into line with those used by the group.
Interpretations which have not been applied Accounting Standards Board IASB and in these financial statements were in issue All intra-group transactions, balances, the International Financial Reporting but not yet effective and in some cases had income and expenses are eliminated Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the not yet been adopted by the EU : on consolidation.
IASB that are relevant to its operations.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and Business combinations Individual standards and interpretations IAS 28 Dec 2015 : Investment Entities: have to be adopted by the European The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted Applying the Consolidation Exception.
Commission EC and the process leads for using the purchase method.
The cost of Amendments to IAS 1 Dec 2015 : to a delay between the issue and adoption the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of new standards and interpretations Disclosure Initiative.
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of and in some cases amendments by the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 EC.
Where the group has applied a new and equity instruments issued by the group Cycle Sept 2014 : Annual Improvements standard or interpretation in advance of in exchange for control of the acquiree.
EC adoption this will be noted below in acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sept the relevant policy statement.
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions 2014 : Sale or Contribution of Assets for recognition under IFRS 10 are recognised Basis of accounting between an Investor and its Associate or at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The financial statements have been Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Amendments to IAS 27 Aug 2014 : Equity Goodwill The financial statements have also Method in Separate Financial Statements.
been prepared in accordance with Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised IFRS 9: Financial Instruments.
IFRSs adopted by the European Union as an asset on the date control is acquired and therefore comply with Article 4 of and initially measured at cost, being Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Jun the EU IAS Regulation.
the excess of the cost of the business combination over the groups interest The financial statements have been IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts in the net fair value of the identifiable prepared on the historical cost basis, with Customers.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities except for the revaluation of certain Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 May recognised.
If, after reassessment, the financial instruments.
The principal 2014 : Clarification of Acceptable Methods groups interest in the net fair value of the accounting policies adopted are set out of Depreciation and Amortisation.
acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities as follows.
58 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Notes to the Group Accounts and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost Freehold buildings 2% indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication of the business combination, the excess is Leasehold property over the period recognised immediately in profit or loss.
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset and improvements of the lease is estimated in order to determine the extent Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for Motor vehicles 20% of the impairment loss if any.
Where the impairment at least annually.
Any impairment asset does not generate cash flows that are Computer equipment 20% is recognised immediately in the income independent from other assets, the group statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Plant and machinery between estimates the recoverable amount of the 5% and 20% cash-generating unit to which the asset On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable belongs.
Fixtures and equipment between amount of goodwill is included in the 10% and 20% determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In Assets held under finance leases are Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions assessing value in use, the estimated future depreciated over their expected useful lives before 1 March 1998 was charged against cash flows are discounted to their present on the same basis as owned assets or, where reserves in the year of acquisition in value using a discount rate that reflects shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
accordance with UK GAAP and has not been current market assessments of the time reinstated and is not included in determining value of money and the risks specific to the The gain or loss arising on the disposal any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
asset for which the estimate of future cash or retirement of an asset is determined as flows have not been adjusted.
the difference between the sales proceeds Revenue recognition and the carrying amount of the asset and is If the recoverable amount of an asset or recognised in income.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the cash-generating unit is estimated to be consideration received or receivable and less than its carrying amount, the carrying Borrowing costs represents the total amount receivable for amount of the asset cash-generating Borrowing costs directly attributable to goods and services provided in the normal unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
the acquisition, construction or production course of business net of returns, VAT and An impairment loss is recognised as an of qualifying assets, which are assets that sales related taxes.
necessarily take a substantial period of time Where an impairment loss subsequently Sales of goods are recognised when goods to get ready for their intended use or sale, reverses, the carrying amount of the asset are delivered and title has passed and are added to the cost of those assets, until cash-generating unit is increased to the it is probable that the economic benefits such time as the assets are substantially revised estimate of its recoverable amount, associated with the transaction will flow to ready for their intended use or sale.
but so that the increased carrying amount the entity.
Sales of rendering of services All other borrowing costs are recognised does not exceed the carrying amount include interest, administrative charges in profit or loss in the period in which they that would have been determined had and arrangement fees.
Interest income is are incurred.
no impairment loss been recognised for the accrued on a time basis, by reference to asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A the principal outstanding and the applicable Intangible assets reversal of an impairment loss is recognised effective interest rate which is the rate that as income immediately.
exactly discounts estimated future cash Computer software development costs that generate economic benefits beyond one receipts through the expected life of the Leasing financial assets to that assets net carrying year are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over amount.
Such revenues are recognised only Leases are classified as finance leases when collectability is reasonably assured.
whenever the terms of the lease transfer Revenue from non-interest related financial substantially all the risks and rewards Customer databases arising on acquisitions income is recognised when the services of ownership to the lessee.
All other assessed under the requirements of IFRS 3 have been performed.
leases are classified as operating leases.
are amortised over their useful economic lives, which have been assessed as being five years.
Property, plant & equipment Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line Legally protected or otherwise separable Property, plant and equipment is stated basis over the term of the relevant lease trade names acquired as part of a business at cost, less accumulated depreciation even where payments are not made on combination are capitalised at fair value on and any provision for impairment in value.
Brand names are individually assessed and are assumed to have an Depreciation is charged so as to write off Assets held under finance leases are indefinite life and are not amortised, but are the cost of assets to their estimated residual included in tangible fixed assets at a value subject to annual impairment tests.
values, based on current prices at the equal to the original costs incurred by the balance sheet date, over their remaining lessor less depreciation, and obligations to Impairment of tangible and intangible useful lives, using the straight-line method.
the lessor are shown as part of creditors.
The assets excluding goodwill No depreciation is charged on freehold interest element is charged to the income land.
In this respect the following annual At each balance sheet date, the group reviews statement over the period of the lease to depreciation rates apply: the carrying value of its tangible and intangible produce a constant rate of charge on the assets to determine whether there is any balance of capital repayments outstanding.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59 Notes to the Group Accounts Inventories income statement, except when it relates to which case the exchange rates at the date of items charged or credited directly to equity, transactions are used.
Exchange differences Inventories have been valued at the lower in which case the deferred tax is also dealt arising, if any, are classified as equity and of cost and net realisable value.
transferred to the groups translation reserve.
is made based on the age of the inventory.
Such translation differences are recognised Cost comprises direct materials and those Foreign currencies as income or as expenses in the period in overheads that have been incurred in which the operation is disposed of.
The individual financial statements of bringing inventories to their present location each group company are presented in and condition based on the standard costing Financial instruments the currency of the primary economic method.
Cost has been calculated on a firstenvironment in which it operates its Financial assets and financial liabilities are in-first-out basis.
Net realisable value means functional currency.
For the purpose of recognised on the groups balance sheet when estimated selling price less all costs to be the consolidated financial statements, the the group becomes a party to the contractual incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
results and financial position of each group provisions of the instrument.
Profits and company are expressed in pounds sterling, Taxation losses on financial instruments are recognised which is the functional currency of the in the income statement as they arise.
The tax expense represents the sum of the group, and the presentation currency for the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Trade receivables consolidated financial statements.
Trade receivables are measured at The tax currently payable is based on In preparing the financial statement of amortised cost using the effective interest taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit the individual companies, transactions in rate method.
Appropriate allowances differs from net profit as reported in the currencies other than the entitys functional for estimated irrecoverable amounts are income statement because it excludes currency foreign currencies are recorded recognised in profit or loss when there is items of income or expense that are taxable at the rates of exchange prevailing on the objective evidence that the asset is impaired or deductible in other years and it further dates of the transactions.
At each balance based on specific customer patterns of excludes items that are never taxable or sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities behavior which may be affected by external deductible.
The groups liability for current that are denominated in foreign currencies economic conditions.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have are retranslated at the rates prevailing on been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items The allowance recognised is measured as the balance sheet date.
carried at fair value that are denominated in the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated foreign currencies are translated at the rates Deferred tax is the tax expected to be future cash flows discounted at the effective prevailing at the date when the fair value payable or recoverable on differences interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Non-monetary items that between the carrying amounts of assets are measured in terms of historical cost in a and liabilities in the financial statements Trade receivables are assessed for foreign currency are not retranslated.
and the corresponding tax bases used impairment on a collective basis.
Objective in the computation of taxable profit, and Exchange differences arising on the evidence of impairment could include is accounted for using the balance sheet settlement of monetary items, and on the the groups past experience of collecting liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities retranslation of monetary items, are included payments and observable changes in are generally recognised for all taxable in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange national and local economic conditions that temporary differences and deferred tax differences arising on the retranslation of could correlate with a default event.
assets are recognised to the extent that non-monetary items carried at fair value are Cash and cash equivalents it is probable that taxable profits will be included in profit or loss for the period except Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash available against which deductible temporary for differences arising on the retranslation on hand and demand deposits, and other differences can be utilised.
Such assets and of non-monetary items in respect of which short-term highly liquid investments that are liabilities are not recognised if the temporary gains and losses are recognised directly readily convertible to a known amount of difference arises from goodwill or from the in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any cash and are subject to an insignificant risk initial recognition other than in a business exchange component of that gain or loss is of changes in value.
combination of other assets and liabilities also recognised directly in equity.
in a transaction that affects neither the tax Financial liabilities and equity In order to hedge its exposure to certain profit nor the accounting profit.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments foreign exchange risks, the group may enter are classified according to the substance of Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for into forward contracts and options see the contractual arrangements entered into.
taxable temporary differences arising on below for details of the groups accounting An equity instrument is any contract that investments in subsidiaries and interests policies in respect of such derivative evidences a residual interest in the assets of in joint ventures, except where the group is financial instruments.
the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
able to control the reversal of the temporary For the purpose of presenting consolidated difference and it is probable that the Bank borrowings financial statements, the assets and liabilities temporary difference will not reverse in the Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts of the groups foreign operations are foreseeable future.
are recorded at the proceeds received, translated at exchange rates prevailing on Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates the balance sheet date.
Income and expense net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, items are translated at the average exchange including premiums payable on settlement that are expected to apply in the period when or redemption and direct issue costs, are the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
rates for the period, unless exchange rates accounted for on an accrual basis in the Deferred tax is charged or credited in the fluctuate significantly during that period, in 60 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Notes to the Group Accounts income statement using the effective interest Retirement benefit costs including cash flows, liquidity position and method and are added to the carrying borrowing facilities and the principal risks Payments to defined contribution retirement amount of the instrument to the extent that and uncertainties relating to its business benefit schemes are charged as an they are not settled in the period in which activities.
These are set out within the Chief expense as they fall due.
to state-managed retirement benefit The group has considered carefully its cash Trade payables schemes are dealt with as payments to flows and banking covenants for the next Trade payables are not interest bearing and defined contribution schemes where the are stated at their nominal value.
twelve months from the date of signing groups obligations under the schemes the audited financial statements.
These are equivalent to those arising in a defined Equity instruments have been appraised in light of the current contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Equity instruments issued by the company economic climate.
As such, conservative are recorded at the proceeds received, net For defined benefit retirement benefit assumptions for working capital of direct issue costs.
schemes, the cost of providing benefits is performance have been used to determine determined using the Projected Unit Credit the level of financial resources available Derivative financial instruments Method, with actuarial valuations being to the company and to assess liquidity The groups activities expose it primarily carried out at the end of each reporting risk.
The key trading risk identified by the to the financial risks of changes in foreign period.
Remeasurement comprising directors for these assumptions is the currency exchange rates relating to the actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the impact that a deterioration in the economic purchase of overseas sourced products, and asset ceiling if applicable and the return climate might have on the performance of interest rates relating to the groups debt.
on scheme assets excluding interest are the groups sales and debtor book.
The group uses foreign exchange forward recognised immediately in the balance sheet contracts and interest rate swap contracts The groups forecasts and projections, with a charge or credit to the statement where appropriate to hedge these exposures.
after sensitivity to take account of all of comprehensive income in the period in In accordance with its treasury policy, the reasonably foreseeable changes in trading which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded group does not use derivative financial performance, show that the group will have in the statement of comprehensive income is instruments for speculative purposes.
sufficient headroom within its current loan not recycled.
Past service cost is recognised facilities of 370m.
The group is in advanced in profit or loss in the period of scheme The use of financial derivatives is governed negotiations with its bankers in relation to amendment.
Net-interest is calculated by by the groups policies approved by the the extension of these facilities to ensure applying a discount rate to the net defined board of directors, which provide written appropriate levels of committed funds are in benefit liability or asset.
Defined benefit principles on the use of financial derivatives.
After making appropriate costs are split into three categories: enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Derivatives are stated at their fair value.
The expectation that the company and the group current service cost, past-service cost fair value of foreign currency derivatives have adequate resources to continue in and gains and losses on curtailments and contracts is their quoted market value at the operational existence for the foreseeable settlements: balance sheet date.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt net-interest expense or income: and Market values are based on the duration of the going concern basis in the preparation of the derivative instrument together with the the annual report and accounts.
quoted market data including interest rates, Exceptional items foreign exchange rates and market volatility The group presents the first two components at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of defined benefit costs within operating Exceptional items are those that are of interest rate contracts is the estimated expenses see note 29 in its consolidated considered to be one off, non-recurring in amount that the group would receive or pay income statement.
Curtailments gains and nature and so material that the directors to terminate them at the balance sheet date, losses are accounted for as past-service believe that they require separate disclosure to avoid distortion of underlying performance taking into account prevailing interest rates.
Net-interest expense or income is and should be separately presented on the recognised within finance costs see note 9.
Changes in the fair value of currency face of the income statement.
derivative financial instruments are The retirement benefit obligation recognised Critical judgements and key sources recognised in the income statement in the balance sheet represents the present of estimation uncertainty as they arise.
value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The key assumptions concerning the future Share-based payments Any asset resulting from this calculation and other sources of estimation uncertainty at is restricted to the past service cost plus The group issues equity-settled sharethe year end date, that have a significant risk of the present value of available refunds and based payments to certain employees.
causing a material adjustment to the carrying reductions in future contributions.
Equity-settled share-based payments are amounts of assets and liabilities within the next measured at fair value at the date of grant.
financial year, are discussed below.
Going concern The fair value determined at the grant date Trade receivables of the equity-settled share-based payments In determining whether the groups accounts is expensed on a straight-line basis over can be prepared on a going concern An appropriate allowance for estimated the vesting period, based on the groups basis, the directors considered the groups irrecoverable trade receivables is derived estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
business activities together with factors where there is an identified event which, Fair value is measured by use of a Blacklikely to affect its future development, based on previous experience, is evidence Scholes model.
performance and its financial position of a potential reduction in the recoverability N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 61
