ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc the Company will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW on Thursday 14 May 2015 at 9.30 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 15 as Ordinary Resolutions and 16 to 19 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 31 to 35 and in the appendices to this Notice.
Biographies of directors seeking election and re-election are shown on page 38 of the Annual Report.
To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditor for the year ended 24 January 2015.
To approve the Remuneration Report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 66 to 73 for the year ended 24 January 2015.
To declare a final dividend of 100p per share in respect of the year ended 24 January 2015.
To re-elect John Barton as a director.
To re-elect Steve Barber as a director.
To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a director.
To elect Amanda James as a director.
To re-elect Michael Law as a director.
To re-elect Francis Salway as a director.
To re-elect Jane Shields as a director.
To elect Dame Dianne Thompson as a director.
To re-elect Lord Wolfson as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
NEXT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP That the directors be authorised: a to continue to operate the LTIP, the principal terms of which are summarised in Appendix 1 to this notice, for a period of ten years from the date of this meeting: and b to establish further plans based on the LTIP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the LTIP.
121 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING 15.
Directors authority to allot shares That: a the directors be authorised to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in the Company: i in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,000,000: and ii up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,000,000 as reduced by any equity securities allotted under paragraph a i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 of the Articles : b in accordance with article 7 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2016: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on or after that date.
Disapplication of preemption rights That: a in accordance with article 8 of the Companys articles of association the Articles, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 b ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 764,000: c in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2016: and d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that they are exercisable by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this new resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on or after that date.
Onmarket purchase of own shares That in accordance with the 2006 Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the 2006 Act of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine provided that: a the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 22,915,000 ordinary shares of 10p each and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 18 below: b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount not more than the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: 122 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING d the authority hereby conferred, unless renewed, shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2016 and 1 August 2016: e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and f all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
Offmarket purchases of own shares That, in accordance with section 694 of the 2006 Act, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the offmarket purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each, as more fully described in Appendix 2 on pages 127 to 128 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company held in 2016 and 1 August 2016, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 17 above.
Notice of general meetings That, in accordance with the Companys articles of association, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Seonna Anderson Secretary Registered Office: Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT 14 April 2015 123 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 14: SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE NEXT LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Operation The Remuneration Committee of the Board of directors of the Company the Committee will supervise the operation of the LTIP.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company and any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the discretion of the Committee.
Grant of awards The Committee may grant an award in one of two forms: i a conditional award, where a participant will receive free ordinary shares in the Company Shares on the vesting of his her award: or ii nil or nominal cost options, where a participant can decide when to exercise his her award over Shares during a limited period of time after it has vested.
The Committee may also allow the grant of cash-based awards of an equivalent value to sharebased awards or may allow share-based awards to be settled in cash in whole or part where the Committee considers it appropriate to do so.
The Committee may normally grant awards within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards when there are exceptional circumstances which the Committee considers justifies the granting of awards.
Awards may only be granted within 10 years of the 2015 AGM.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable other than to the participants personal representatives in the event of death.
Individual limit The maximum number of Shares that may be awarded to a participant in any financial year will be limited so that the market value of such Shares when awarded and in the aggregate will not exceed 200% of the individuals base salary.
However, if the Committee decides that exceptional circumstances exist in relation to the recruitment or retention of an individual, then the individual may be granted awards over Shares with a market value of up to 300% of the individuals base salary in a financial year.
In calculating these limits, the average closing share price over the 3 months preceding the start of the period over which performance conditions are measured or such later date as specified by the Committee will be used.
Overall LTIP limits The LTIP may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
The current intention is that all awards will be satisfied using shares purchased in the market.
In any period of ten years the Company may not issue or have the possibility to issue more than: a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the LTIP and any other employees share plan adopted by the Company: and b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the LTIP and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of this limit but they will also cease to count towards this limit if institutional investor bodies decide that they need not count.
124 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING Vesting of awards Awards will normally vest on the later of: a the expiry of the vesting period: b the third anniversary of the grant date: c the date that the Committee determines the extent to which the applicable performance conditions see below have been satisfied: and d such later date within three months of the third anniversary of the grant date as specified by the Committee: and provided the participant is still a director or employee in the Companys group.
Performance conditions The performance conditions for awards will be set each year in line with the Companys approved directors remuneration policy.
The Committee will also have the power to vary the terms of existing performance conditions if an event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the performance condition would not, if left unamended, achieve its original purpose.
However, the amended performance condition will have to be, in the Committees view, no less difficult to satisfy as a result of the change.
Reduction of vesting of awards If at any time before an award vests a participant has been either suspended for a disciplinary matter or the subject of an investigation in relation to a disciplinary matter, or if the participant has performed in a manner considered by the Committee to be unsatisfactory as evidenced by notifying the participant in writing then the Committee may reduce the vesting of that award in such manner as it considers appropriate or withhold the vesting of that award pending further investigation.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Companys group.
However, if before the vesting of an award a participant ceases to be a director or employee within the Companys group by reason of death or in other circumstances which the Committee in its absolute discretion determines are exceptional circumstances, then the award will be retained and may vest on the normal vesting date to the extent determined by the performance conditions measured over the full performance period.
The Committee may, at its discretion, allow awards to vest in such circumstances at the time of cessation of employment, in which case awards would normally be subject to the performance conditions as measured over the shorter period.
In either case, there will also be a pro-rata reduction in the size of the award for the time that has elapsed up to the date of cessation compared to a three-year vesting period unless the Committee determines that it would be inappropriate to apply a pro-rata reduction in the particular circumstances.
The Committee may also apply further restrictions on the vesting of awards held by individuals who cease employment.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation, all awards would vest early to the extent that the performance conditions have, in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied at that time.
The awards would normally be prorated to reflect the shorter than normal period of time between the date of the award and the time of vesting.
The Committee can decide not to pro-rate awards if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the same basis as described above.
Awards may also vest on the same basis if a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market price of the Shares to a material extent.
Participants rights Awards structured as conditional awards and options will not confer any shareholder rights on participants until the awards have vested and the participants have received their Shares.
The LTIP does not credit participants with additional value in respect of dividends paid over any vesting period except that the Committee has discretion to award such credit for special dividends.
125 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING Rights attaching to Shares Any Shares allotted when an award vests or for an award structured as an option, when it is exercised will rank equally with all other Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or other similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustments as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
Alterations to the LTIP The Committee may, at any time, amend the provisions of the LTIP in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders must be obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on individual participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of Shares held in treasury, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be provided under the LTIP and the adjustment of awards or options.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the LTIP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Overseas plans The Board may at any time without further shareholder approval establish further plans in overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the LTIP, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws.
Any Shares made available under such further plans will count against the LTIPs limits on individual and overall participation.
126 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING APPENDIX 2 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 18: OFF MARKET PURCHASES OF OWN SHARES As noted on page 34 in the Directors Report, approval will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
By virtue of special resolution number 18 passed at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 23.239 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2015 or 1 August 2015.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum of 4 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2015 or 1 August 2015.
Pursuant to those authorities and up to 18 March 2015, the Company has bought back 2,158,761 shares for cancellation, representing 1.4% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2014 AGM, at a total cost of 137.9 million.
No shares were bought back under contingent purchase contracts.
Under sections 693 and 694 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and from the January year end up to the announcement of the full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility and reducing the cost, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
As in previous years, the Company intends to enter into new agreements the Programme Agreements, with each of the Banks, under which the Company may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
The terms of a CFT will be agreed between the Company and the Bank before it is entered into.
The Company is committed to purchase shares under a CFT on the day it is executed subject to the terms of the Programme Agreement.
The terms of each CFT will provide for the Company to purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 30,000 shares per week.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price either not rising to, or above, a level the Upper Suspension Level or, if applicable, falling to or below a level the Lower Suspension Level.
The Suspension Levels and duration are determined by the Company and are set at the time the CFT is entered into.
The Upper Suspension Level must be set between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price at the start of the CFT.
If the Company chooses to incorporate a Lower Suspension Level, it must be set between 80% and 95% of the price at the start of the CFT.
The inclusion of a Lower Suspension Level would help mitigate the Companys financial commitment under a CFT if its share price was to fall below this level after the CFT had been executed.
If the Lower Suspension Level is not included, the level of discount to the market share price would be higher.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a CFT the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price will be determined by the Bank with reference to the volume weighted average price for shares traded in NEXT on the day the CFT is entered into.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between entering a CFT and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
The Company will announce the details of each CFT on the day it is entered into and any subsequent termination via the UK Listing Authoritys Regulatory News Service.
This 127 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Levels are not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If any Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
Under the provisions of sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 18, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM to be held in 2016 or 1 August 2016 and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 3 million, representing circa 2.0% of its issued share capital at 18 March 2015: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 200 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed the higher of 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the CFT was effected and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Shares purchased under the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 14 May 2015 for onmarket purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2016 or on 1 August 2016, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 14 May 2015.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT and at the offices of Pinsent Masons, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The total number of employee share awards and share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 18 March 2015 was 6,223,008.
This represents 4.1% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to both the existing authority for offmarket purchases granted at the 2014 AGM which will expire at the 2015 AGM and the authority sought by this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 18 March 2015 would represent 4.3% of the reduced issued share capital.
128 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING MEETING FORMALITIES AND VOTING Attending the Annual General Meeting AGM To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and for the purposes of determining the number of votes shareholders may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 12 May 2015 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6pm on the day two days before the adjourned meeting.
The total number of the Companys issued share capital on 18 March 2015, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, is 152,873,556 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in treasury.
On a vote by a show of hands every member who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote has one vote.
On a poll vote every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share they hold.
In line with best practice, all resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who validly appoint a proxy, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 18 on offmarket share purchase contracts, the 2006 Act provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard any poll votes which are cast in favour of resolution 18 attaching to 3.0 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
The results of the AGM will be posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk after the meeting and notified to the UK Listing Authority.
Voting and proxies Whether or not you intend to attend the AGM in person, you are requested to complete and return the form of proxy to Equiniti, to arrive as soon as possible but in any event not later than 9.30am on 12 May 2015 or 48 hours before any adjourned meeting.
The completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the meeting if you so wish.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him her, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company and may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the paragraphs headed Electronic Voting and CREST voting facility below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted, the senior holder being the first named of the joint holders to appear in the Companys share register.
A member who appoints as their proxy someone other than the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the proxy attends the meeting and is aware of the voting intention of the member.
If no voting instruction is given, the proxy has discretion on whether and how to vote.
129 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Electronic voting As an alternative to completing and returning a form of proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing our Registrars website www.
You will require your unique Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number as printed on the proxy card.
The use by members of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later than 48 hours before the AGM.
CREST voting facility Those shareholders who hold shares through CREST may choose to appoint a proxy or proxies using CREST for the AGM to be held on 14 May 2015 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual is available at www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Corporate representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Right to ask questions Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
130 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc NOTICE OF MEETING Documents available for inspection Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours and will be available for 15 minutes prior to and for the duration of the AGM: Terms of appointment of the nonexecutive directors Rules of the NEXT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP pursuant to resolution 14 The Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 18 Rules of the NEXT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP pursuant to resolution 14 and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 18 will also be available for inspection at the offices of Pinsent Masons, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES during usual business hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
Company website A full copy of the Annual Report which includes the Notice of Meeting, together with those for prior years, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act can be found on the NEXT plc website at www.
Under section 527 of the 2006 Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on its website.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
131 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
