Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2015 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating in the United Arab Emirates UAE, Spain, Colombia and Italy.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London, W1J 8AJ.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control the Company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, home care services, long term care services and the provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction, and the rendering of business management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector.
The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food, IT products and services.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 13 March 2016 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration payable which have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
From period ended 30 June 2015 onwards, the Group elected to present the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income separately, whereas in the financial statements for year ended 31 December 2014 and prior to that, a single consolidated statement of comprehensive income was presented.
FUNCTIONAL AND REPORTING CURRENCY The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in the UAE is the UAE Dirham and the functional currency of the subsidiaries in Spain and Italy is the Euro.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognized currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the Board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its expansion through acquisitions and in relation to working capital requirements.
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2015.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth in revenue during 2015.
Net profit and EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2015.
EBITDA margin of Distribution is almost same as last year whereas for Healthcare it decreased slightly which is due to opening of new facilities during the year.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2016 and the five year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in the UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee.
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee.
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements.
The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
104 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION continued The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2015 2014 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company Limited UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 99% 99% NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 99% 99% Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 99% 99% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100% Brightpoint Hospital LLC UAE 99% 99% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 99% 99% NMC Hospital LLC DIP Hospital UAE 99% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi branch.
UAE 99% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Al Ain branch UAE 99% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Al Ain branch.
UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 2 UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 3 UAE 99% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99% National Marketing & Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99% New Marketing & Trading Company LLC-branch UAE 99% 99% NMC Trading LLC-branch UAE 99% 99% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99% National Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Dubai branch UAE 99% 99% New Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Dubai branch UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC UAE 99% 99% NMC Trading LLC branch UAE 99% 99% NMC Trading LLC-Fujairah branch UAE 99% 99% NMC Trading RAK-branch LLC UAE 99% 99% New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre-branch Al-Ain, Al wadi UAE 100% 100% Medifertil, S. A Columbia 60.5% Centro fide infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU CIRH Spain 86.4% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione Biogenesi Italy 51.8% EUVITRO, S. L. U Spain 86.4% ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 99% The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 90% The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 90% Americare LLC UAE 90% Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Sunny Dental Care LLC UAE 100% Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% Sharjah Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES Impairment of inventories Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made of their net realisable value.
For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the inventory type and the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 2015 was US$136,176,000 2014: US$111,597,000 and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2015 was US$1,388,000 2014: US$1,388,000 Note 20.
Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired pertains to Groups operations in UAE, these receivables are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arms length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset.
The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model.
The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the assets performance of the CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
These estimates are most relevant to goodwill recognised by the Group.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are disclosed and further explained in Note 18.
In addition, the Group has work in progress in respect of Hospital Information System HIS and ERP amounting to US$3,991,000 2014: US$4,216,000.
This amount is included in capital work in progress in property, plant and equipment and in software in intangible assets Note 17 and Note 18.
Management believes this amount is fully recoverable.
Valuation of intangibles assets The Group measures its intangible assets acquired in a business combination as follows: Brand Relief from royalty Database and software Replacement cost Patient relationships Multi period excess earning method Non-compete agreements Income approach-with or without method Rental and private contracts Multi period excess earning method Estimating the fair value of the brand requires determination of the most appropriate valuation method.
This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation method including the base revenue, expected life of the intangible assets, selecting an arms length royalty rate, discount rate and making assumptions about them.
Similarly, estimating the replacement cost of the database requires an estimate of the number of cycles that are recorded in the database along with the best estimate of the hours dedicated by the staff such as doctors, nurses, biologists, and other specialist technicians to collect the data, the useful life of the database, discount rate and an estimate of tax saving.
Estimating the fair value of patient relationships and the non-compete agreements requires an estimate of the expected revenue over an appropriate period of time, a churn rate to account for the reduction in the number of patients over the years, discount rate, rate of inflation and the useful life and the risk inherent in ownership of the asset or security interest being valued.
106 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES continued Useful economic lives of property and equipment and depreciation method Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life.
Management has re-assessed the useful economic lives of all asset categories with effect from 1 January 2015, following a review of the useful economic lives of the Groups assets and market research conducted on depreciation rates and methods in the industry: Rate applied Rate applied from from 1 January 31 December 2015 2014 Hospital building 6% 6% Buildings 6% 6% Leasehold improvements 10% 20% 20% Motor vehicles 20% 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% 20% 12.5% 20% Medical equipment 10% 25% 10% 25% The impact of the re-assessment of useful economic lives and depreciation method is an increase in reported profit of US$1,944,000 in the current year.
Useful economic lives of intangible assets and amortisation method The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangibles assets are amortised on straight line basis over their useful life.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brand names 5-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Contingent consideration on acquisitions Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination.
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The determination of the fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant performance targets, securing certain agreements, completing certain acquisitions and the discount factor Note 5.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS Business combinations and goodwill When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired then the difference is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised The key judgements in respect of the contingent consideration recognised as part of a business combination relate to the performance of the business, the discount rates used and the contractual arrangements of ownership.
Valuation of put option The accounting for put options requires significant management judgment and is driven by the specific contract terms.
Put and call options were issued as part of the Luarmia SL acquisition.
On the basis of the contract terms and interpretation of relevant accounting standards and guidance, the judgment is that the Group does not have present ownership of the 13.6% non-controlling interest NCI as at the date of acquisition.
This judgment leads to the next stage of the accounting decisions required.
The Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32, and the permitted policy choice is that there should be full recognition of NCI using the proportionate method.
This means that the full 13.6% NCI is recognised as part of the Luarmia acquisition, a financial liability for the redemption value of the options was recognised at US$24,496,000 as at the date of acquisition, and an equal amount was set against other equity.
As at 31 December 2015, the present value of the redemption liability is US$25,084,000 Note 5 and 37.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS continued Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic effects of the Companys transactions, events and conditions.
The primary economic environment influencing the Companys income dividends is the UAE and the effect of the Companies local environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK.
The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE.
Assets held in the name of the previous shareholder In accordance with local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
As at 31 December 2015 certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 2014: US$9,321,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired Note 17.
Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2015, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$778,000 2014: US$1,105,000 included within property, and equipment as at 31 December 2015 Note 17.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups over 40 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 15 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS The Group applied for the first time certain standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2015 and are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 40 Investment Property 108 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue sharing arrangement with doctor.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable.
When the Group does not retain the significant risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues: Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either inpatient or outpatient medical services, homecare services or long term care services.
The group primarily receives clinic service, homecare and long term care revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Clinic, home care and long term revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for services which are provided, it bears the credit risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
Gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction Revenue in respect of the different types of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction services is recognized as follows: Donor IVF and Own IVF sales In Vitro Fecundation Revenue in respect of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction is mainly from In Vitro Fertilization IVF treatment.
Revenue from IVF treatment is recognized based on the stage of the treatment.
The treatment is divided into three stages.
Each stage takes about 20 days.
25% of revenue is booked in the first stage at the beginning of the treatment, 50% of revenue is booked in the middle stage at patients egg extraction in the case of the use of the patients own egg or in the case of the use of a donor egg at the fertilization date and 25% of revenue is booked at the final stage embryo implantation.
These percentages are based on an internal study of the costs incurred in the different streams performed in 2014.
Cryo transfer sales Total cost of the treatment is split in two phases in terms of revenue recognition.
25% is recorded when the doctor agrees with the patient to initialize the treatment and 75% at the embryo implantation.
The time between both phases is about 2-3 weeks.
Intrauterine insemination Revenue is recognized in full at the insemination date.
Sale of Goods Pharmacy The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, UAE.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods Distribution Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Groups share of the revenue, as specified in the contract.
Any amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable.
There are currently no material agency relationships.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued REVENUE RECOGNITION continued Healthcare Management fees Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital.
Management fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
Revenue sharing arrangements with doctors The Group enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient services using the facilities.
In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities.
Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
OTHER INCOME Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
INTEREST INCOME For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
REBATES FROM SUPPLIERS The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities arising from overseas operations for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in the respective overseas jurisdictions.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
110 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued DEFERRED TAX continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, are recognised subsequently if new information about facts and circumstances change.
The adjustment is either treated as a reduction in goodwill as long as it does not exceed goodwill if it was incurred during the measurement period or recognised in profit or loss.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 6% Buildings 6% Leasehold improvements 10% 20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% 20% Medical equipment 10% 25% The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 5-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
112 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised.
BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
PRE-OPERATING EXPENSES Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit.
These are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which they occur.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts.
Accounts receivable with no stated interest rates are measured at invoiced amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
An estimate of doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
EQUITY The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
PUT  INTEREST In circumstances where the Group has determined that they do not have the present ownership interest in the shares subject to a put option, the Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32 and accordingly a non-controlling interest NCI is fully recognised at the date of acquisition, The Group recognises the full NCI using the proportionate share of net assets method.
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the NCI is recognised at fair value within liabilities, with the liability being treated as an immediate reduction to equity attributable to the parent other reserves.
The financial liability is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date and the change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued TERM LOANS Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in the UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs Interest expense With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Equity-settled share-based payments to employees including executive directors are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 32.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share see Note 16.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
114 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The Groups principal geographical segment is the United Arab Emirates.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar so a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate those assets and liabilities and balances in the consolidated income statement.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, put options and contingent consideration.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
LEASES The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
In addition, the standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements that are not expected to have any material impact on the Group are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Annual improvements 2012-2014 Cycle: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception 116 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of entities acquired as at the date of acquisition are as follows: Luarmia SL CIRH Biogenesi TADS Americare Dr Sunny ProVita Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Particulars Assets Intangible assets 35,657 378 7,373 2,623 6,847 21,935 74,813 Property and equipment 1,932 73 645 30 1,158 1,219 8,635 13,692 Deferred tax asset 842 1 843 Inventories 3,521 362 85 810 662 5,440 Accounts receivable 678 174 851 2,724 5,372 9,881 19,680 Other receivables 3,821 41 172 350 2,880 2,386 9,650 Cash and bank balances 9,610 1,976 9 2,001 1,199 3,828 9,825 28,448 56,061 2,642 8,028 3,416 8,139 20,956 53,324 152,566 Liabilities Current tax 35 35 Borrowings 25,006 39 1,566 54 26,665 Deferred tax 8,804 92 2,058 10,954 Accounts payable 2,887 382 2 922 1,016 3,865 3,066 12,140 Other payable 5,100 1,691 111 1,126 1,884 1,942 1,869 13,723 41,797 2,200 2,171 2,048 2,939 7,373 4,989 63,517 Total identified net assets at fair value 14,264 442 5,857 1,368 5,200 13,583 48,335 89,049 Non-controlling interest 1,940 2,343 342 520 5,145 Goodwill arising on acquisition 117,059 13,622 8,329 4,879 26,763 53,838 120,582 345,072 Purchase consideration 129,383 14,064 11,843 5,905 31,443 67,421 168,917 428,976 Purchase consideration: Payable in cash 127,107 11,393 5,522 5,905 31,443 57,973 160,592 399,935 Contingent consideration 2,276 2,671 6,321 9,448 8,325 29,041 Total consideration 129,383 14,064 11,843 5,905 31,443 67,421 168,917 428,976 With the exception of Luarmia SL and Americare all fair values stated in table above are provisional.
Analysis of cash flows on acquisitions is as follows: Luarmia SL CIRH Biogenesi TADS Americare Dr Sunny ProVita Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Particulars Cash paid 127,107 11,393 5,522 5,905 31,443 57,973 160,592 399,935 Contingent consideration paid 2,276 1,742 4,018 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 9,610 1,976 9 2,001 1,199 3,828 9,825 28,448 Transaction costs 1,745 87 96 81 313 374 608 3,304 Net cash flow on acquisition 121,518 9,504 5,609 3,985 30,557 56,261 151,375 378,809 The transaction costs reported in the consolidated income statement comprise of the following: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Transaction costs for the acquired entities 3,304 Transaction costs for Fakih IVF 750 Transaction costs for acquisitions in progress 77 4,131 The non-controlling interest in all acquired entities is measured at the proportionate share of net assets of subsidiaries.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Other financial information with respect to acquired entities is as follows: Luarmia SL CIRH Biogenesi TADS Americare Dr Sunny ProVita Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Particulars Revenue from the date of acquisition 29,668 6,645 2,858 5,243 11,435 12,158 19,701 87,708 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 6,708 1,660 819 2,485 2,126 1,192 5,033 20,023 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2015 unaudited 36,063 8,804 5,990 5,841 16,601 36,357 54,007 163,663 Profit after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2015 unaudited 6,010 2,631 2,312 2,656 3,143 2,588 9,298 28,638 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 858 174 851 2,724 6,510 12,451 23,568 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 678 174 851 2,724 5,372 9,881 19,680 ACQUISITION OF LUARMIA SL On 23 February 2015, the Group acquired 86.4% of the voting shares of Luarmia SL Luarmia and its subsidiaries, an unlisted company based in Spain and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
Luarmia owns Clinica Eugin through a wholly owned subsidiary.
The Group acquired Luarmia SL because Eugin is a leading In Vitro Fertilisation IVF centre of excellence with world-leading technology and expertise as well as strong brand recognition and to bring the technologies in fertility services to NMCs network in the UAE to complement the existing NMC womens health services.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Luarmia SL and its subsidiaries for the 10 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Luarmia and rolling out of fertility services to other entities of the Group.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$19,855,000, software of US$3,168,000, intellectual properties of US$3,000, patients procedures database of US$11,683,000 and rental contract of US$948,000 with a related deferred tax liability in respect of these intangible assets of US$8,713,000.
The related deferred tax liability has been assessed using the rate of corporation tax 25% applicable in Spain.
A contingent tax liability of US$1,445,000 has been recorded within the liabilities of Luarmia recognised at the acquisition date, the timing of the outflow of which is uncertain.
The carrying amount of this liability was US$1,420,000 as at 31 December 2015.
Under the terms of the share purchase agreement the Group is indemnified for any subsequent tax liabilities in respect of the pre-acquisition period and accordingly a corresponding asset of an equal amount has also been recognised.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner, contingent consideration has been agreed.
The purchase consideration of US$129,383,000 includes contingent consideration amounting to US$2,276,000.
This relates to potential amounts payable in the event the advanced stage acquisitions of the acquired company are completed within 12 months from the purchase agreement date.
Both of the acquisitions completed in 2015 and the contingent consideration has been paid during 2015.
The Group entered into separate co-investment shareholder agreements dated 23 February 2015 with the sellers relating to put & call options on the minority 13.6% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 13.6% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and will continue to account for the acquisition of Luarmia on the basis of an 86.4% equity stake, with full recognition of the 13.6% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2018, 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 three exercisable windows.
On exercise of the put options, cash will be paid.
The value of the put option is calculated based on the multiple of purchase price and further multiples are measured on the number of reproductive cycles specified in the agreement.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date has been created amounting to US$24,496,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2015, the present value of the redemption liability is US$25,084,000 Note 37.
The call options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 two exercisable windows.
On exercise of the call options, cash will be paid.
The value of the call option is calculated on the basis of Black Scholes model.
The call options value is immaterial and hence not recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
118 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued ACQUISITION OF CENTRO fide INFERTILIDAD Y REPRODUCCION HUMANA SLU CIRH On 18 March 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of CIRH, an unlisted company based in Spain and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
The Group acquired CIRH to enable Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in Spain and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of CIRH for the 9 month period from the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents future business potential and profit growth of CIRH and it comprises all of intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, customer service, future client relationships and presence in the geographical market.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included rental and private contracts amounting to US$371,000, software of US$7,000 with a related deferred tax liability of US$92,000.
The related deferred tax liability has been assessed using the rate of corporation tax applicable in Spain.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner, a contingent consideration has been agreed.
The total purchase consideration of US$14,064,000 includes consideration paid of US$11,393,000 and contingent consideration of US$2,671,000 payable subject to the attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets.
Management believes these targets will be met.
The full value of the contingent consideration payable is US$3,255,000 and the present value of US$2,768,000, as at 31 December 2015.
This is due in 2017 and is included in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 30.
ACQUISITION OF CENTRO fide MEDICINA DELLA RIPRODUZIONE BIOGENESI On 6 July 2015, the Group acquired a 60% equity interest in Biogenesi, an unlisted company based in Italy and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
The Group acquired Biogenesi to enable Clinica Eugin to reinforce its presence in Italy and strengthen its brand and positioning at the forefront of its market.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Biogenesi for the 6 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Biogenesi with those of the Group.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included commercial contracts amounting to US$7,373,000 with a related deferred tax liability of US$ 2,058,000.
The related deferred tax liability has been assessed using the corporation tax rate applicable in Italy.
The total purchase consideration of US$11,843,000 includes consideration paid of US$5,522,000 and contingent consideration of US$6,321,000 payable subject to the attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets.
The full value of the contingent consideration payable is US$7,700,000 and the present value at reporting date is US$6,578,000.
Out of total contingent consideration, amount of US$2,130,000 is due in 2016 and amount of US$4,448,000 is due in 2019.
This is included in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 30.
ACQUISITION OF TRANS ARABIA DRUG STORE LLC TADS On 23 March 2015, the Group acquired 75% of the voting shares of TADS, an unlisted company based in Dubai, UAE and specialising in the distribution of specialist pharmaceutical products.
The Group acquired TADS because of the synergies which will flow to the distribution segment NMC Trading because of entry into a niche area.
The segment faces less competition due to the specialized products which they deal with.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of TADS for the 9 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of TADS with those of the Group.
Goodwill is allocated to the distribution and services segment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
TADS is exclusive UAE distributor for various specialist pharmaceutical products, a business which will enhance distribution and services segment revenues and profitability.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued ACQUISITION OF AMERICARE On 29 April 2015, the Group acquired 90% 39% of the registered shareholdings and 51% beneficial interest in the shareholdings of Americare LLC, the American Surgecenter LLC and the American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC collectively referred to as Americare which are unlisted companies based in Abu Dhabi, UAE specialising in home health services and other diversified medical and pharmacy services.
The 51% beneficial shares are registered in the name of a UAE national.
NMC has beneficial interest in these shares through an agreement entered into with the UAE national.
All controlling rights i. e. voting, appointment and removal of directors, dividend rights vest with NMC.
These rights are not relinquishable.
The Group acquired Americare because this acquisition extends NMCs service offering along the care pathway by complementing existing in-hospital healthcare services and expanding into the home based long term care market segment.
In addition, Americare includes a medical centre with on-site pharmacy located in the upmarket Khalidiya residential area of Abu Dhabi City.
This medical centre is expected to contribute to the patient cross-referral capabilities of NMCs nation-wide and multi-specialty hub-and-spoke healthcare services network.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Americare for the 8 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Americare with those of the Group.
Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways: Americare home services will complement the existing in-hospital services offered by Group.
The addition of a home based service offering will increase healthcare segment value chain.
Groups in-hospital patients will be referred to Americare for home based services as appropriate, thereby expanding healthcare segment revenues.
Americare home based patients will be referred to NMC hospitals for in-hospital treatment as required, with a direct impact on hospital revenues.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$1,545,000 and non-compete agreements US$1,078,000.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
Management fees of US$1,500,000 in respect of services provided by the Group to Americare prior to its acquisition were recognised as revenue in the first half of the year.
In finalising the acquisition accounting, management have now concluded that the two arrangements were non-separable and hence the management fees should be treated as a reduction to the purchase consideration paid.
ACQUISITION OF DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE On 29 April 2015, the Group agreed to acquire 100% of the business of the Dr Sunny health centres and pharmacies unincorporated businesses and 100% of the voting shares of Sunny Speciality Medical Centre LLC a company based in Sharjah, UAE.
These businesses together are referred to as Dr Sunny Healthcare and specialise in the provision of medical services.
The Group acquired Dr Sunny Healthcare because it expands NMCs existing Sharjah operation into a network of healthcare facilities through the addition of six medical centres and three pharmacies.
Consequently, this acquisition expands the geographical footprint, addressable market and patient cross-referral capabilities of NMCs nation-wide and multi-specialty hub-and-spoke healthcare services network.
NMC acquired control of Dr Sunny Healthcare on 25 August 2015, date on which conditions precedent were completed.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Dr Sunny Healthcare for the 4 month period from the acquisition date.
Other receivables include an amount of US$2,200,000 in respect of a receivable from previous shareholders in respect of some of the liabilities of the acquired entities assumed by the previous shareholders as at the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Dr Sunny Healthcare with those of the Group.
Synergistic benefits will arise in the following ways: The acquisition of Dr Sunny Healthcare will give the Group enhanced direct access into Sharjah healthcare market and extends the healthcare segments market position in Sharjah and UAE as a whole.
The ability to cross refer patients from Dr Sunny medical centres to the nearby NMC Speciality Hospital in Dubai.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value assessment of identifiable net assets included brands amounting to US$6,043,000 and non-compete agreements US$804,000.
120 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued ACQUISITION OF DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE continued As part of the acquisition the Group entered into contractual earn-out arrangements with the Chief Medical Director and CEO of Dr Sunny Healthcare who were the owners of the business.
This entitles them to shares of the future profits of Dr Sunny Healthcare in respect of financial years 2015 and 2016.
At the acquisition date, the estimated fair value of this contingent consideration was $9,448,000.
In addition, the Group also entered into consultancy arrangements with these two individuals.
The full value of the contingent consideration has been measured as US$10,176,000.
During the year the Group has paid an amount of US$1,742,000 in respect of contingent consideration.
Present value of remaining outstanding contingent consideration is US$7,345,000 and is included in other payables Note 30.
Outstanding contingent consideration is payable partly in 2016 and partly in 2017.
Management fees of US$4,500,000 in respect of services provided by the Group to Dr Sunny Healthcare prior to its acquisition were recognised as revenue in the first half of the year.
PROVITA INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CENTRE LLC PROVITA On 15 June 2015, the Group agreed to acquire 100% 49% of the registered shareholdings and 51% beneficial interest in the shareholdings of the voting shares of ProVita, an unlisted company based in Abu Dhabi, UAE and specialising in the provision of long-term care in the healthcare market.
The Group acquired ProVita, a provider of long term patient care because it contemplates expansion in the GCC region supported by its growing healthcare services capabilities.
NMC acquired control of ProVita on 20 August 2015, the date on which conditions precedent were completed.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of ProVita for the 4 month period from the acquisition date.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of ProVita with those of the Group.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in UAE.
Synergistic benefits will arise from in the following ways: ProVitas long-term care services will complement the existing in-patient services offered by the Group hospital, as well as the shorter term in-home services offered by Americare.
The addition of a long-term care provider offering will increase healthcare segment value chain.
Synergies include expanded service offering, plugging an existing service gap, enhancing positioning as integrated healthcare provider, access to thiqa patients thiqa is the premium insurance coverage for the UAE nationals, operational, revenue and cost synergies with NMC's existing facilities.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value of identifiable assets included brands amounting to US$8,415,000, patient relationship US$13,471,000 and software of US$49,000.
Purchase consideration includes contingent consideration of US$8,325,000.
The full value of the contingent consideration is US$8,500,000 and the present value as at 31 December 2015 is US$8,325,000.
The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
As of 31 December 2015, contingent consideration remains payable and is included in other payables Note 30.
Contingent consideration is expected to be payable in 2016.
POST BALANCE SHEET ACQUISITION: FAKIH IVF LLC AND FAKIH IVF FERTILITY CENTER LLC FAKIH IVF On 24 November 2015, NMC agreed to acquire a 51% controlling stake in the voting shares of Fakih IVF, an unlisted group registered in Cayman Islands and operationally headquartered in Abu Dhabi, UAE, which is the Middle Easts leader in the provision of IVF and fertility services.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed on 8 February 2016, meaning that control has passed to the Group, and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The agreed purchase consideration for the business is US$197,800,000, with additional potential earn out payments of US$9,000,000.
The Group has agreed a mechanism by which it could increase its stake in Fakih over time the buyout period based on certain conditions being met.
The fair value assessment of identifiable net assets at the acquisition date remains in progress and therefore the fair value of the identifiable net assets is preliminary.
The Group has a 1 year timeframe from the date of acquisition to finalise the measurement of the net assets acquired.
The net assets identified to date are those existing at the acquisition date, those forming part of the acquisition, and those that meet the recognition criteria for assets and liabilities.
No acquisition date contingent liabilities requiring full recognition have been noted as yet.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Provisional goodwill has been calculated being the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid, and the fair value of the net assets acquired.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
This date is 31 January 2016, with full consolidation commencing on 8 February 2016.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 31 January 2016 and 8 February 2016.
Details of the provisional goodwill calculated as of 31 January 2016 are as follows: Fair value recognised on acquisition US$000 Assets Intangible assets 126 Property, plant and equipment 4,590 Inventories 613 Accounts receivable 12,717 Cash and bank balances 3,392 21,438 Liabilities Accounts payable 5,942 Other Payable 2,653 8,595 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 12,843 Non-controlling interests 6,293 Goodwill arising on acquisition 200,338 Purchase consideration transferred 206,888 The acquisition of Fakih IVF has resulted in a provisional goodwill of US$200,338,000.
The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree using the proportionate method, resulting in an NCI on acquisition of US$6,293,000 being 49% of the identifiable net assets at fair value.
The transaction costs of US$750,000 have been expensed and are included under transaction costs in respect of business combinations in the consolidated income statement.
6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES The financial information in respect of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: PROPORTION OF EQUITY INTEREST HELD BY NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December Incorporation 2015 2014 Indirect subsidiaries: Luarmia SL Spain 86.4% Americare LLC UAE 90% Shareholding disclosed is for Luarmia SL only.
Within Luarmia SL there are certain other subsidiaries.
The financial information provided below is for Luarmia SL and its subsidiaries.
ACCUMULATED BALANCES OF MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 4,298 Americare 704 122 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES continued PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 15 Americare 184 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
This information is stated before inter-company eliminations.
Luarmia Americare US$000 US$000 Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2015: Revenue 39,020 11,435 Direct costs 16,205 6,485 Administrative and other expenses 14,116 2,538 Depreciation & amortisation 3,823 570 Profit before tax 4,876 1,842 Income tax 403 Profit for the year 5,279 1,842 Other comprehensive loss 5,342 Total comprehensive loss income 63 1,842 Attributable to non-controlling interests 15 184 Luarmia Americare US$000 US$000 Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Inventories & cash and bank balance current 17,831 1,180 Accounts receivable and prepayments current 5,163 4,194 Property and equipment and other non-current assets non-current 108,265 3,333 Accounts payable and accruals current 9,026 1,350 Interest-bearing loans current 9,708 Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities non-current 35,524 Other payable non-current 12,801 313 Total Equity 64,200 7,044 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 59,902 6,339 Non-controlling interest 4,298 705 Luarmia Americare US$000 US$000 Summarised cash flow information for period ended 31 December 2015 Operating 5,324 1,611 Investing 18,440 121 Financing 16,312 1,595 Net Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3,196 105 Comparatives are not provided for the above financial information in respect of material non-controlling interests as both of the subsidiaries were acquired in 2015.
7 SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics, provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued The new acquired companies, Luarmia SL, CIRH, Biogenesi, Americare, Dr Sunny Healthcare and ProVita come under the healthcare segment and TADS under the distribution and services segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss.
These are measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance costs and finance income relating to UAE subsidiaries are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
In addition Group overheads are also not allocated to individual segments as these are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
From the current year the Group stopped allocating finance cost and IT cost to its UAE subsidiaries.
Accordingly the prior year comparatives with respect to finance costs, segment EBITDA and segment profit have been restated.
124 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued ADJUSTMENTS AND ELIMINATIONS Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are substantially not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment and intangible assets.
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT EBITDA TO GROUP PROFIT restated 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Segment EBITDA 180,474 123,555 Unallocated group administrative expenses 31,153 21,233 Unallocated other income 1,025 136 Unallocated finance income 925 3,623 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Finance costs 23,845 14,497 Depreciation 29,851 14,050 Amortisation 5,475 Transaction costs related to business combination 4,131 Tax 403 Group Profit 85,760 77,534 RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT PROFIT TO GROUP PROFIT restated 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Segment profit 148,745 109,991 Unallocated finance income 1,043 3,623 Unallocated finance costs 22,687 14,497 Unallocated group administrative expenses 31,153 21,233 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Unallocated depreciation 624 486 Unallocated other income 1,025 136 Unallocated amortisation cost 4,110 Unallocated transaction cost 3,867 Group Profit 85,760 77,534 RECONCILIATION OF GROUP ASSETS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Segment assets 1,286,789 668,680 Unallocated property and equipment 10,290 9,341 Unallocated inventory 22 26 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 8,913 7,253 Unallocated bank balances and cash 86,321 78,633 Unallocated bank deposits 58,858 183,577 Unallocated intangible assets 2,687 3,015 Group assets 1,453,880 950,525 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued RECONCILIATION OF GROUP LIABILITIES 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Segment liabilities 226,425 108,797 Unallocated term loans 539,875 206,512 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 1,854 1,101 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 5,837 11,335 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 154,962 169,607 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 178 146 Unallocated option redemption liability 25,084 Group liabilities 954,215 497,498 OTHER INFORMATION The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution and Healthcare services Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2015 Customer 1 154,772 154,772 Customer 2 47,083 47,083 201,855 201,855 Year ended 31 December 2014 Customer 1 92,246 92,246 Customer 2 35,005 35,005 127,251 127,251 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Revenue from external customers United Arab Emirates 841,851 643,931 Spain 34,994 Others 4,025 Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 880,870 643,931 Non-current assets United Arab Emirates 671,956 372,593 Spain 176,824 Others 844 Total non-current assets 849,624 372,593 Deferred tax assets United Arab Emirates Spain 1,302 Others 14 Total deferred tax assets 1,316 126 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Revenue from services: Healthcare clinic 410,408 260,938 Healthcare management fees 7,280 5,717 417,688 266,655 Sale of goods: Distribution 369,841 316,217 Healthcare 93,341 61,059 463,182 377,276 Total 880,870 643,931 8 EXPENSES BY NATURE 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 389,702 314,408 Salary expenses 239,139 157,990 Rent expenses 44,859 27,728 Sales promotion expenses 43,882 35,174 Repair and maintenance expenses 9,891 7,630 Electricity expenses 4,927 3,932 Legal and licence fees 3,561 2,073 Motor vehicle expenses 3,292 2,572 Insurance expenses 2,688 1,233 Printing and stationery 2,560 2,214 Communication expenses 2,393 1,725 IT expenses 1,193 665 Others 19,086 14,569 767,173 571,913 Allocated to : Direct costs 575,926 434,725 General and administrative expenses 191,247 137,188 767,173 571,913 The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated income statement are: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Depreciation 29,851 14,050 Amortisation 5,475 Finance costs 23,845 14,497 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 61,783 28,547 9 OTHER INCOME Other income includes US$35,256,000 2014: US$30,180,000 relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
Furthermore, other income includes US$536,000 2014: US$Nil in respect of a re-measurement gain on contingent consideration payable.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 10 FINANCE COSTS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Bank interest 18,106 12,324 Bank charges 2,489 2,173 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 1,793 Amortisation of option redemption liability 1,457 23,845 14,497 11 FINANCE INCOME 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Bank and other interest income 925 3,623 925 3,623 12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 389,702 314,408 Cost of inventories written off and provided Note 20 1,678 2,318 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 44,859 27,728 Depreciation Note 17 29,851 14,050 Amortisation Note 18 5,475 Net Impairment of accounts receivable Note 21 1,740 2,498 Employees end of service benefits Note 28 4,869 3,492 Net foreign exchange gain loss 593 1,490 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 185 224 Share based payments expense Note 32 1,177 88 13 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1,300 593 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 453 149 audit related assurance services 233 130 other assurance services Tax compliances services 12 12 Tax advisory services 8 non-audit services 115 41 2,113 933 Included in the fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts is US$12,000 2014: US$NIL which was under-accrued in respect of the prior year audit of the Companys annual accounts.
The fees paid to the auditor includes US$115,000 2014: US$92,000 in respect of out of pocket expenses.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2015 or 2014.
128 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS A STAFF COSTS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 217,439 144,942 Employees end of service benefits Note 28 4,869 3,492 Share based payments expense Note 32 1,177 88 Others 15,654 9,468 239,139 157,990 Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part b below.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2015 2014 Healthcare 5,495 3,874 Distribution & services 2,456 1,846 Administration 230 174 8,181 5,894 B DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Directors remuneration 4,623 2,141 Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in Note 32.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
15 TAX The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates and Spain.
As there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
There is no taxable income in the UK and accordingly there is no tax liability arising in the UK.
With respect to operations in Spain, the tax disclosures are as follows: 2015 2014 US$ 000 US$ 000 Consolidated income statement Current income tax: Charge for the year 753 Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax 163 590 Deferred tax: Credit relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year 993 Income tax credit reported in the income statement 403 No tax is included in other comprehensive income 2014: NIL.
The rate of corporation tax in Spain is 28%.
Given that there is no tax payable in respect of operations in the UAE and no UK corporation tax payable, the Group has used the Spanish tax rate for the purpose of the preparation of the tax reconciliation presented below as all the taxable profits have been generated by Luarmia S. L. group of companies.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 15 TAX continued Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by the Spanish domestic tax rate of 28% for 2015 is represented below: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Group accounting profit before tax from continuing operations for the year 85,357 Less: Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations not subject to tax 78,558 Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations subject to tax 6,799 Tax at Spanish income tax rate of 28% 1,904 Non-taxable dividend income 1,032 Tax saved on amortisation of intangibles 480 Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax 163 Deductible expenses for tax purpose: R&D and IT 609 Accelerated depreciation 39 Other non-deductible expenses 16 Income tax credit reported in the income statement 403 The effective tax rate of the Group is -0.47% 2014:0.00%.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise of: Deferred tax assets: 2015 2014 US$ 000 US$ 000 Tax credit for R&D expenses 1,235 Limit on tax deductibility of depreciation and amortisation 81 Total deferred tax assets 1,316 Deferred tax liabilities: 2015 2014 US$ 000 US$ 000 Depreciation and amortisation 9,761 Total deferred tax liabilities 9,761 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net 2015 2014 US$ 000 US$ 000 As of 1 January Tax charge credit for the year 993 Foreign exchange adjustments 673 Deferred taxes acquired on business combinations 10,111 As at 31 December 8,445 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable as supported by forecasts that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
There are no income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends in either 2015 or 2014 by the Group to its shareholders.
130 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2015 2014 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent US$000 82,215 76,566 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 000 for basic EPS 185,714 185,714 Effect of dilution from share based payments 000 484 56 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 for diluted EPS 186,198 185,770 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.443 0.412 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.442 0.412 The table below reflects the income and share data used in the adjusted earnings per share computations.
All one off expense and expenses incurred first time i. e. amortisation, have been adjusted from the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent to arrive at the adjusted earnings per share: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 82,215 76,566 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,131 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 4,995 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 93,953 76,566 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 186,198 185,770 Diluted adjusted earnings per share US$ 0.505 0.412 Adjusted profit disclosed in the consolidated income statement is calculated as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 85,760 77,534 Unamortised finance fees written off 2,612 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 4,131 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 4,995 Adjusted profit 97,498 77,534 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Property and equipment 433,524 368,357 433,524 368,357 Furniture, fixtures Leasehold fittings and Freehold Hospital improveMotor medical Capital work land building Buildings ments vehicles equipment in progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2015 Cost: 19,206 12,343 26,300 51,859 7,421 143,488 213,758 474,375 Additions 2,317 1,564 14,088 63,733 81,702 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 2,268 571 7,222 3,631 13,692 Disposals 234 2,231 33 2,498 Transfer from CWIP 101,444 17,893 119,337 Exchange difference 118 8 126 At 31 December 2015 19,206 12,343 26,300 157,888 9,322 180,342 161,744 567,145 Depreciation: At 1 January 2015 8,114 5,920 13,730 5,185 73,069 106,018 Charge for the year 310 1,419 13,054 800 14,268 29,851 Exchange difference 20 20 Relating to disposals 206 2,022 2,228 At 31 December 2015 8,424 7,339 26,784 5,779 85,295 133,621 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2015 19,206 3,919 18,961 131,104 3,543 95,047 161,744 433,524 31 December 2014 Cost: At 1 January 2014 19,206 12,343 26,300 17,388 5,887 114,074 171,389 366,587 Additions 1,064 1,576 14,967 94,686 112,293 Disposals 42 1,265 1,307 Transfer from CWIP progress 33,407 15,712 49,119 Transfer to Intangible assets 3,198 3,198 At 31 December 2014 19,206 12,343 26,300 51,859 7,421 143,488 213,758 474,375 Depreciation: At 1 January 2014 7,804 4,501 10,279 4,868 65,343 92,795 Charge for the year 310 1,419 3,451 359 8,511 14,050 Relating to disposals 42 785 827 At 31 December 2014 8,114 5,920 13,730 5,185 73,069 106,018 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2014 19,206 4,229 20,380 38,129 2,236 70,419 213,758 368,357 As part of the Groups capital expenditure programme, borrowing costs of US$1,691,000 2014: US$4,068,000 have been capitalised during the year.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 2.1% 2014: 3.15% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
Companies in the UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$81,702,000 2014: US$112,293,000.
Of the total capital expenditure spend during the year, US$63,733,000 2014: US$94,686,000 related to new capital projects and US$ 17,969,000 2014: US$17,607,000 related to further capital investment in our existing facilities.
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, and the warehouse facilities which have leases renewable on an annual basis Note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2015 US$778,000 2014: US$1,015,000 of the amounts included in property and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
132 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT continued In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
Certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 31 December 2014: US$9,321,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
GOODWILL Additions to goodwill in the year relate to goodwill measured in respect of the acquisitions of Luarmia SL, CIRH, Biogenesi, ProVita, Dr Sunny Healthcare, Americare and Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Group performed its annual goodwill impairment test in December 2015 and 2014.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the following operating segments representing a group of cash generating units CGUs, which are also operating and reportable segments, for impairment testing: Healthcare Distribution and services The healthcare CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$336,541,000 at the year-end 2014: US$1,016,000.
The distribution and services CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$4,879,000 at the year-end 2014: US$ nil.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued The recoverable amounts for both CGUs are based on value in use, which has been calculated using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period.
Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a 3.0% growth rate 2014: 3.0% which is significantly lower than the current annual growth rate of both CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows of both CGUs is 7.7% 2014:8%, which is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and takes into account such measures as risk free rates of return, the Groups debt equity ratio, cost of debt and local risk premiums specific to the CGUs.
As a result of the analysis, there is headroom in both CGUs and no impairment has been identified.
Reasonable sensitivities have been applied to each CGUs cash flows and the discount rates used, and in all cases the value in use continues to exceed the carrying amount of CGU goodwill.
The key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections for the five period covered by the most recent forecasts are those related to growth in available beds, patient numbers for the healthcare segment and revenue from the distribution of products for the distribution and services segment.
The assumptions made reflect past experience and are based on managements best estimate and judgment.
OTHER ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Included in software are HIS and ERP projects amounting to US$ 2,995,000 2014: US$3,220,000 which are work-in-progress as of year-end.
Management is currently in the process of estimating the useful economic life of the HIS and ERP projects.
Amortization of the software will commence once it is implemented and goes live.
19 LOAN RECEIVABLE 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Loan receivable 4,395 4,395 Classification of loan receivable into current and non-current is as follows: Current 2,670 Non-current 1,725 4,395 During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group entered into a loan arrangement, with a third party Borrower, to finance certain payables in connection with a hospital facility, for an aggregate amount not to exceeding US$8,595,000.
The loan will be repaid over a term of three years, US$2,670,000 each for the first two years and the balance outstanding amount in the third year.
The Group believes that the amount is fully recoverable.
The loan is interest-free, however, any unpaid loan receivable as of due date shall bear commission at the rate of 15% per annum.
20 INVENTORIES 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Pharmaceuticals and cosmetics 65,166 58,444 Scientific equipment 14,093 11,295 Consumer products 40,766 32,719 Food 9,118 6,041 Egg bank 2,622 Consumables 783 211 Opticals 315 333 Goods in transit 2,087 1,750 Other 1,226 804 136,176 111,597 Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 1,388 1,388 134,788 110,209 134 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2015 is US$1,678,000 2014: US$1,646,000.
This is recognised in direct costs.
Charge for the year in respect of provision provided for slow moving and obsolete inventories is US$NIL 2014: US$672,000.
Trust receipts issued by banks amounting to US$21,370,000 2014: US$25,059,000 are secured against the inventories.
21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Accounts receivable 242,016 168,207 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 10,690 9,349 Other receivables 12,225 6,262 Prepayments 17,544 12,751 282,475 196,569 Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$13,022,000 2014: US$8,996,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 8,996 8,241 Written off 1,595 1,743 Written back Note 12 1,295 471 Charge for the year Note 12 3,035 2,969 Addition from business combinations 3,888 Exchange difference 7 At 31 December 13,022 8,996 The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days 365 days US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2015 Accounts receivable 242,016 168,747 49,460 12,466 7,016 4,327 31 December 2014 Accounts receivable 168,207 115,379 37,884 9,985 3,777 1,182 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2015 accounts receivables of US$13,022,000 2014: US$8,996,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management Note 33.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Of the net trade receivables balance of US$242,016,000 2014: US$168,207,000 amount of US$108,936,000 is against five customers 2014: US$73,069,000 is against five customers.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$4,116,000 31 December 2014: US$7,985,000 as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Bank deposits 58,886 183,577 Bank balances and cash 118,511 79,592 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 154,962 169,607 22,435 93,562 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 129,095 143,875 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 55,094 82,209 Restricted cash 12,412 18,909 Cash and cash equivalents 84,024 136,319 Bank deposits of US$58,886,000 2014: US$183,577,000 are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates and Spain.
These are mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and Euro and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 3 to 12 months 2014: 3 to 12 months.
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance imports.
The bank overdrafts and short term borrowings are secured by assets of the Group up to the amount of the respective borrowings and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4% 2014: 1% to 4% per annum.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had US$42,356,000 2014: US$19,474,000 of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment instalments.
23 SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014: Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 24 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$10,001,000 debit, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve.
25 RETAINED EARNINGS As at 31 December 2015, retained earnings of US$17,590,000 2014: US$16,101,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
136 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 26 DIVIDEND In the AGM on 16 June 2015 the shareholders approved a dividend of 5.4 pence per share, amounting to GBP10,028,600 US$15,866,000 to be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 29 May 2015.
The dividend amount was paid to the shareholders on 25 June 2015 2014: a dividend of GBP8,212,700 equivalent to US$13,846,000 was approved on 26 June 2014 and paid on 4 July 2014.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 3 June 2016, a final dividend of 6.2 pence per share, GBP11,580,000 US$16,443,000 will be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 20 May 2016.
The loan facility is repayable over 60 monthly instalments with a grace period of twelve months.
The applicable interest rate is dependent upon the respective leverages.
Based upon the leverage at the time of initial drawdown, the initial margin was 100bps 70bps over 1 month LIBOR EIBOR per annum.
The new syndicated loan facility has been utilised to repay some of the existing debts including the previous syndication loan obtained in FY2013 and will also be utilised for capital expenditures and acquisitions.
The Group has utilised an amount of US$350,000,000 against the new syndicated loan facility as well as US$163,679,000 of the delayed drawdown acquisition finance as of 31 December 2015.
This new syndicated loan is guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the Group.
The new syndicated loan is secured against a collateral package which includes an assignment of some insurance company receivables and their proceeds by the Group and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group.
In addition to the new syndicate loan facility, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawndown and repaid over the year.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group drew down term loan of US$822,698,000 Year ended 31 December 2014: US$263,594,000 and repaid term loans of US$472,796,000 Year ended 31 December 2014: US$307,282,000.
Total transaction fees in respect of the new loan amounts to US$10,789,000.
The Group has charged an amount of US$2,612,000 to the consolidated income statement with respect to unamortised transaction costs of existing debts which have been settled using the proceeds of new syndicated loan.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 28 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 14,934 12,099 Charge for the year 4,869 3,492 Actuarial gain 260 Employees end of service benefits paid 1,133 657 Addition from business combinations 4,080 Balance at 31 December 22,490 14,934 Current 3,206 2,484 Noncurrent 19,284 12,450 Balance at 31 December 22,490 14,934 Charge for the year comprise of the following: Current service cost 4,234 2,991 Interest cost 635 501 Balance at 31 December 4,869 3,492 In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2015 and 2014, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
During the current year, the Group has recognised an actuarial gain of US$260,000 in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2014: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 2.25% 2014: 3.0%.
The expected liability at the date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 3.25% 2014: 4.0%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
29 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts payable 87,029 77,906 Accrued interest 1,014 1,532 Accrued expenses 7,536 2,428 Others 27,932 16,178 123,511 98,044 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms.
30 OTHER PAYABLES 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Contingent consideration payable for acquisitions Note 36 25,016 Other payable 158 21 25,174 21 Classification of other payables into current and non-current is as follows: Current 11,150 Non-current 14,024 21 25,174 21 138 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control the company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings.
This entitlement reduces or is removed as the collective shareholdings reduce.
The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Sales 699 9,775 Purchases 54,252 32,336 Rent charged 440 422 Other income 1,195 970 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity Management fees received from such entity by NMC 6,003 5,717 Sales 438 2,015 Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Amounts due from related parties 328 3,603 Amounts due to related parties 17,419 8,380 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of the entity management personnel of such entity Amounts due from related parties 3,788 4,382 Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term and carried interest at 0% 31 December 2014: 0% per annum.
As at 31 December 2015 US$1,778,000 of the amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired 31 December 2014: US$1,998,000.
The Group has incurred expenses and recharged back an amount of US$1,854,000 31 December 2014: US$3,018,000 made on behalf of a related party where a shareholder who has significant influence over the Group is a key management personnel of that entity.
Out of total term loans outstanding as of 31 December 2015, term loans of US$28,372,000 2014: US$35,325,000 are secured by joint and several personal guarantees of the Shareholders HE Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
Pharmacy licenses in UAE under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 139 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Short term benefits 6,469 3,074 Employees end of service benefits 16 20 6,485 3,094 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the two 31 December 2014: three Executive Directors and four 31 December 2014: three senior management personnel.
During the year additional shares of 345,649 were granted to Executive Directors and other senior management in the form of share options.
One individual 31 December 2014: two who is a related party of one of the shareholders is employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by that related party in the year ended 31 December 2015 amounts to US$786,000 2014: US$572,000 for two individuals.
32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group currently operates two share option schemes: LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The exercise prices are nil.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years.
The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 83.
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model.
Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period since the Companys shares have been publicly traded.
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$1,177,000 2014: US$88,000 in respect of the cost of providing share options.
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2015 2014 STIP STIP Share price at grant date 5.200 4.570 Fair value at measurement date 5.060 4.403 Exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 40% 35% Expected option life 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.23% Risk free interest rate 0.98% 0.98% 2015 2015 2014 LTIP 1 LTIP 2 LTIP Share price at grant date 5.200 7.650 4.949 Fair value at measurement date 5.060 7.377 4.769 Exercise price nil nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% 35% Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.91% 1.21% 1.23% Risk free interest rate 0.98% 1.05% 0.98% LTIP 1 and LTIP 2 represent long term incentive plans issued in February and September 2015 respectively.
140 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP continued The options existing at the year-end were as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Exercise Number of shares price Period when exercisable shares Long term incentive plan LTIP October 2014 160,778 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 160,778 Short term incentive plan STIP October 2014 55,527 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 55,527 Long term incentive plan LTIP February 2015 221,539 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Short term incentive plan STIP February 2015 74,801 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Long term incentive plan LTIP September 2015 49,309 nil 09 09 18 to 08 09 25 Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 561,954 216,305 Percentage of issued share capital 0.3% 0.1% Movement of share options during the year is as follows: 2015 2014 At 1 January 216,305 Granted during the year 345,649 216,305 Outstanding at 31 December 561,954 216,305 No options expired, were exercised or forfeited during the year 2014: nil.
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries, put option redemption liability and trade and other payables.
In addition to these financial liabilities the Group has forward exchange contract as of 31 December 2015.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
These risks and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are consistent with last year except for foreign currency risk which has increased due to the acquisition of subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk now includes risk on the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management is of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued INTEREST RATE RISK continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Effect on profit at Effect on profit at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Increase decrease in basis points US$000 US$000 100 6,714 1,925 100 6,714 1,925 CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business in the UAE, the majority of the Groups customers are insurance companies.
The largest insurance company in UAE is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies in the UAE are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to healthcare customers in markets other than UAE by requesting certain percentage of advance payments from customers and obtaining final payments before completion of treatment.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 B2 229 AAA-1 Aa3 18,038 812 A A1 722 4,345 A A2 19,426 267 A A-1 419 A3 A- 4,352 599 AA 4 B1 1,145 BB 2,496 BB 812 Baa2 16,224 Baa3 109,728 208,694 BBB 2,609 BBB- 7,941 30,229 BBB Baa1 Baa1 P-2 5,769 280 Without external credit rating 2,895 1,149 Total bank deposit and cash at bank 176,356 262,828 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
142 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued LIQUIDITY RISK continued The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction risk, statement of financial position risk and the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable, put option redemption payable and certain receivables denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Saudi Riyal.
As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The table below indicates the impact of Groups foreign currency monetary liabilities and assets at 31 December, on its profit before tax.
2015 2014 US$000 US$000 5% 1,690 96 -5% 1,690 96 As a result of acquisition of new subsidiaries in Spain, Italy and Columbia the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Group has recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of US$5,342,000 on the translation of foreign subsidiaries in other comprehensive income.
During the year, the Group also entered into a forward currency contract.
This derivative is not designated in a hedge relationship.
It acts as an economic hedge and will offset the underlying transaction when that occurs.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, group restructuring reserve and retained earnings and is measured at US$487,697,000 as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$449,023,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 730,308 376,119 Accounts payable and accruals 123,511 98,065 Other payable 25,174 Option redemption payable 25,084 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 177,397 263,169 Net debt 726,680 211,015 Capital 487,697 449,023 Capital and net debt 1,214,377 660,038 Gearing ratio 60% 32% 34 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2015 of US$9,069,000 2014: US$8,311,000.
35 COMMITMENTS CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The Group had future capital commitments of US$30,230,000 at 31 December 2015 2014: US$25,012,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
OTHER COMMITMENTS 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 12,846 10,816 After one year but not more than five years 53,943 44,947 More than five years 84,407 91,003 Total 151,196 146,766 144 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACT The Group holds a forward exchange contract to manage foreign exchange exposure.
The forward contract has a principal value of US$15,000,000 and is denominated in Qatari Riyal.
This contract has not been designated as a cash flow hedge and the decrease in the fair value during 2015 of US$ 1,200,000 2014: US$ Nil has been included in finance costs and the corresponding liability is included in the others category within accounts payable and accruals Note 29.
This is a level 2 derivative financial instrument.
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION The consideration to acquire Luarmia SL, Dr Sunny Healthcare, ProVita, CIRH and Biogenesi includes contingent consideration of US$29,041,000 Note 5.
In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a level 3 derivative financial instrument.
The fair value of outstanding contingent consideration as at the reporting date is US$25,016,000.
The valuation technique used for measurement of contingent consideration is the weighted average probability method and then applying discounting.
Movement in contingent consideration payable is as follows: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Contingent consideration recognised at acquisition 29,041 Unrealised gain recognised in other income Note 9 536 Unwinding adjustment 585 Exchange gain 56 Payments made 4,018 25,016 Unwinding adjustment is included in financial instruments fair value adjustments in finance cost Note 10.
Exchange gain is recognised in exchange difference on translation of foreign operations in other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration payable as of 31 December 2015 comprises of following: 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 CIRH 2,768 Biogenesi 6,578 Dr Sunny Healthcare 7,345 ProVita 8,325 25,016 CIRH Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets.
Management believes that these targets will be met.
Significant unobservable inputs used is discount rate 9.2%.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$48,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$49,000.
BIOGENESI Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue or reproductive cycle targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used is discount rate 10.7%.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent Consideration by US$84,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$86,000.
DR SUNNY HEALTHCARE Significant unobservable inputs used are growth rate 13% and WACC 7.7%.
A 5% increase decrease in growth rate would result in an increase decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$332,000.
A 1% increase in WACC would result in a decrease in fair value by US$225,000 and a 1% decrease in WACC would result in increase in fair value by US$62,000.
PROVITA The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
Management believes that it is highly probable that these licenses will be obtained.
Subsequent to year end, one of the licenses has been obtained and an amount of US$5,000,000 has been paid.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 145 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 37 OPTION REDEMPTION PAYABLE The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the non-controlling interest in Luarmia SL is recognised at expected amount payable of US$25,084,000 within non-current liabilities Note 5.
The key assumption in estimating the expected amount is the multiple of purchase price and reproductive cycles projections.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example a 10% increase in reproductive cycles will result in an increase in the financial liability to US$28,129,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability to US$22,039,000.
38 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are disclosed in Note 36.
During the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
39 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The Group entered into an agreement to buy 51% shareholding in Fakih IVF.
The Group completed the acquisition of Fakih IVF on 8 February 2016.
Refer to Note 5 for further details.
The Group entered into agreements to acquire two healthcare related businesses for purchase consideration amounting to US$14.5 million and US$11 million respectively.
One of these transactions completed by 31 January 2016 and other is expected to complete before end of Q1 2016.
146 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
