com stock code: NTG Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and seventeenth Annual General Meeting of Northgate plc the Company will be held at 6 Agar Street, London WC2N 4HN at 11.30 a. m. on 17 September 2015 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 12 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions: 1.
To receive the Directors Report and audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2015.
To declare a final dividend of 10.2p per Ordinary share.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy, in the form set out on pages 45 to 55 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
To appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company in place of the retiring auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
To elect Mr A Page as a Director.
To re-elect Mr AJ Allner as a Director.
To re-elect Miss G Caseberry as a Director.
To re-elect Mr RL Contreras as a Director.
To re-elect Mr CJR Muir as a Director.
That the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to s551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,000,000 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after such expiry and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 11 the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to s570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of s560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution as if sub-section 1 of s561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a. to the allotment of equity securities in favour of Ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them: and b. to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,330,000: and c. to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a. and b. above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,330,000 in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment, and such power shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 FINANCIALS Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 118 119 13.
That a general meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of s693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of Ordinary shares of 50p each of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine, provided that: a. the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 13,300,000, representing approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 June 2015: b. the minimum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary share is 50p: c. the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for any such Ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share in the Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: d. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting: and e. the Company may make a contract to purchase its Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may purchase its Ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By Order of the Board D Henderson Secretary 29 June 2015 Registered office: Norflex House Allington Way Darlington DL1 4DY 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Notice of Annual General Meeting CONTINUED Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Your proxy must vote as you instruct and must attend the Meeting for your vote to be counted.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
A proxy form which may be used to make this appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy proxy form, proxies may be appointed by using the electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note 6 below.
CREST members may appoint proxies using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service see Note 7 below.
In each case the appointment must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Act a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be entitled to attend and vote, whether in person or by proxy, at the Meeting, members must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6 pm on Tuesday 15 September or, in the case of an adjourned meeting, at 6 pm on the day which is two days before the meeting excluding days which are not working days.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy online should visit www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
If you have not already registered with The Share Portal you will need to identify yourself with your personal Investor Code see Attendance Card.
To be valid your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Capita Registrars no later than 48 hours before the time set for the Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 FINANCIALS Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 120 121 9.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting which is put by a member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
As at 29 June 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 133,232,518 Ordinary shares of 50 pence each, carrying one vote each and 1,000,000 preference shares of 50 pence each, which do not carry any rights to vote on the above resolutions.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company are 133,232,518.
The contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, the total voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website: www.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections i have the right to require the Company to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the business, unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by the Company not later than 5 August 2015, being the date six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
