Where we operate Advantageous location of assets Our main operational facilities are located at the 274square kilometre Chinarevskoye field in north-west Kazakhstan.
We now have three additional licences, all within a 120km radius ofthis location.
This advantageous location is core to our business case, allowing us to leverage our existing infrastructure and experienced operating and development teams.
Key Current destinations Oil condensate Sweden Finland Russia Norway Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Belarus Ireland United Poland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Kazakhstan Belgium Czech Ukraine Republic Slovakia Moldova Austria Hungary Romania Switzerland France Slovenia Croatia Kyrgyzstan Bosnia Uzbekistan Serbia Bulgaria Georgia Italy Macedonia Azerbaijan Albania Armenia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Spain Greece Turkey Portugal Transportation dynamics and routes Crude Condensate LPG Crude oil is transported through our Condensate is transported through LPG is transported on trucks from own liquids pipeline directly from the our own oil pipeline from the field site thefield site to the rail terminal where field site.
15% is sold domestically and then 100% is exported by rail to it isloaded on to special trains and andthe remainder is sold through for the Russian Black Sea port of Taman.
The export to two main buyers, Neste Oil majority of our LPG is sold at Black Sea inFinland and SOCAR in Azerbaijan.
ports and distributed by traders to Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 06 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Russia Chinarevskoye field Darjinskoye field  field North-west Kazakhstan Rostoshinskoye field Uralsk Key Border Nostrum oil loading rail terminal at Rostoshi Gas pipeline Gas treatment facility GTF Nostrum oil pipeline Oil treatment facility OTF Nostrum gas pipeline Oil pipeline Dry gas Expanding for the future Nostrum is continually evaluating the Dry gas is transported from the With the preparatory work to destinations to which we sell in order Chinarevskoye field through the doubleproduction capacity nearing to achieve the best possible netbacks Companys own 17km gas pipeline, completion, all of the related for the company.
At present, however, which connects to the InterGas Central infrastructure, upon completion of transportation routes and destinations Asia pipeline.
25% of gas produced GTU3, will be able to accommodate are expected to remain unchanged.
issold domestically at this connection increased levels of production.
This will point and the remaining 75% further improve our efficiencies and isexported.
effective use of existing infrastructure.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 07
