GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 68 69 Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual Responsibility statement report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: regulations.
| the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Directors are required to prepare the Group financial the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a statements in accordance with International Financial whole: and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union | the strategic report includes a fair review of the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to development and performance of the business and the prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRS position of the Company and the undertakings included as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they description of the principal risks and uncertainties that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group they face.
and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 Presentation of taken advice from the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board Financial Statements requires that Directors: considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides | properly select and apply accounting policies: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the | present information, including accounting policies, in a Companys performance, business model and strategy.
mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board | provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Bob Contreras specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users Chief Executive to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 29 June 2015 events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and | make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
