Shareholder Information Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Glossary 2014 ESOS means the Ocado 2014 Executive Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Share Option Scheme.
a dedicated highly automated warehouse used Neill Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark for the operation of the business.
Active Customers means customers who have are: CFC1 in Hatfield, CFC2 in Dordon, CFC3 in shopped with Ocado in the previous 12 weeks.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated Andover under testing and CFC4 in Erith under online pet store.
Administrative Expenses means all IT costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, Financial Period means the 52 week period, or Deloitte means Deloitte LLP.
employment costs of all head office functions, 53 week period where relevant, ending the closest which include legal, finance, human resources, Directors means the directors of the Company Sunday to 30 November.
marketing and procurement, rent and other whose names are set out on pages 50 and 51, or Financial Year or FY see Financial Period.
property-related costs for the head office, all fees the directors of the Companys subsidiaries from for professional services and the depreciation, time to time as the context may require.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
amortisation and impairment associated with Directors Remuneration Policy means the GAAP means generally accepted accounting head office IT equipment, software, fixtures and remuneration policy which was approved by principles.
fittings and expenses relating to the Groups share shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting schemes.
GHG means greenhouse gas es.
Admission means the admission of the GIP means the Growth Incentive Plan.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules means ordinary shares of the Company to the premium the disclosure rules and transparency rules made Gross Sales Group means sales net of listing segment of the Official List and to trading under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets returns, including charges for delivery, before on the London Stock Exchanges main market for Act 2000 as amended.
deducting relevant vouchers, offers and value listed securities which occurred on 26 July 2010. added tax.
Gross sales also includes income Distribution Costs means all the costs AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the received pursuant to the Morrisons agreement.
incurred, excluding product costs, to the point of Company, which will be held on 4 May 2016 at Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off sale, usually the customers home.
This includes 11 am at Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multithe payroll-related expenses for the picking, London, EC4A 2BB.
buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
dispatch and delivery of product sold to the Annual Incentive Plan or AIP means the point of sale, the cost of making those deliveries, Gross Sales Retail means sales of the Groups Executive Director incentive plan for the Group including fuel, tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the retail operation being Ocado.
co. uk and applicable to a particular financial year.
operating costs of the properties required for the sizzle.
co. uk picking, dispatch and onward delivery operations Articles means the articles of association of the Group means Ocado Group plc, its subsidiaries, and all associated depreciation, amortisation Company.
significant undertakings and affiliated companies and impairment charges, call centre costs and under its control or common control.
Board means the board of directors of the payment processing charges.
Company or its subsidiaries from time to time as HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & DPV means deliveries per van per week.
EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure which Chairmans Share Matching Award means IAS means International Accounting Ocado has defined as earnings before net finance a one-off award of shares to Lord Rose, made in Standard s. costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, May 2013. impairment and exceptional items.
IFRIC means International Financial Reporting Cash LTIP means the Companys cash-based Standards Interpretations Committee.
EBT as relating to the Income statement, means Long Term Incentive Plan for senior employees.
As relating to share schemes, IFRS means International Financial Reporting Code means the UK Corporate Governance means employee benefit trust.
Standard s. Code published by the FRC in September 2014, as EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
amended from time to time.
time of the employee benefit trust established for IP means Intellectual Property.
the purposes of the JSOS, currently Appleby Trust Companies Act means the Companies Act Jersey Limited.
ISA UK & Ireland means International Standard on Auditing in the UK and Ireland.
Company means Ocado Group plc, a company EPS means earning per share.
incorporated in England and Wales with registered John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent ESOS means the HMRC-approved Ocado 2001 number 07098618 whose registered office is at company of Waitrose, incorporated in England Executive Share Option Scheme and the Ocado Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business and Wales with registered number 233462 whose 2001 Non-HMRC approved Executive Share Option Park, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
registered office is at 171 Victoria Street, London, Scheme.
Exceptional Items means items that due to com.
JSOS means the Groups Joint Share Ownership their material and non-recurring nature have been Scheme.
It comprises three issues called JSOS1, classified separately in order to draw them to the CR means Corporate Responsibility.
attention of the reader of the financial statements.
CSTM means Customer Service Team Member, KPI means key performance indicators.
the title given to our customer facing delivery drivers.
com Shareholder Information KPMG means KPMG LLP.
Ocado Smart Platform or OSP means the Sourcing Agreement means the various end-to-end solution for operating online in the sourcing and branding agreements between LIBOR means the London Interbank Offered grocery market, which has been developed by the Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made OPW means orders per week.
the intermediate handling of customers orders.
by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as Other Income means primarily revenue Substitution means an alternative product amended.
for advertising services provided by Ocado to provided in place of the original product ordered suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, by a customer.
LPP means Low Price Promise, the Ocado commission income and sublease payments.
vouchering scheme which entitles customers to TSR means total shareholder return the Other income is recognised in the period to which receive discount vouchers where their shopping growth in value of a shareholding over a specified it relates on an accruals basis.
basket has cost more than it would have at period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to selected competitors.
Participants means eligible staff who purchase additional units of the stock.
participate in one of the Companys staff share LTIP means the Companys Long Term Incentive UPH means average units processed per labour schemes.
Plan for Executive Directors and selected senior hour.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus USDAW means the Union of Shop, Distributive dated 6 July 2010 prepared in connection with the Management Committee means senior and Allied Workers.
management responsible for managing the dayWaitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company to-day operations of the business.
PwC means  LLP, the incorporated in England and Wales with registered Groups statutory auditors or the Groups advisers MHE means mechanical handling equipment.
number 00099405, whose registered office is at in respect of non-audit services.
MHE JVCo means MHE JVCo Limited, a R&D means Research and Development.
company incorporated in England and Wales with Webshop means the customer facing internetregistered number 8576462, whose registered Revenue means online sales net of returns based virtual shop accessible via the website office is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield through the Webshop and Ocado on the Go, www.
including charges for delivery, but excluding sizzle.
MHE JVCo is jointly owned by a Group subsidiary relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees charged to Morrisons are also included in Revenue.
Relevant Morrisons means Wm Morrison Supermarkets vouchers and offers include money-off coupons, PLC, a company incorporated in England and conditional spend vouchers and multi-buy offers, Wales with registered number 353949, whose such as buy three for the price of two.
registered office is at Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD3 7DL.
Shareholder means a holder for the time being of ordinary shares in the Company.
com means Morrisons online retail business.
Sharesave Scheme or SAYE Scheme means the Ocado employee savings-related share option Net Finance Costs means finance income plan approved by HMRC.
SAYE1 means the first less finance costs.
Finance income is comprised invitations made under the scheme in 2010, SAYE2 principally of bank interest and other interest.
means the second invitations made under the Finance costs are comprised of interest on bank scheme in 2012, SAYE3 means the third invitations loans and overdrafts, interest on finance leases made under the scheme in 2013 and SAYE4 means and interest on other financing arrangements.
the fourth invitations made under the scheme in 2015.
NFDC means the Non-Food Distribution Centre in Welwyn Garden City, a dedicated highly SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
automated warehouse used for the operation of the business.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated online kitchen and dining store.
Non-Executive Directors means the nonexecutive Directors of the Company designated as SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each such on pages 50 and 51. line of stock.
Notice of Meeting means the notice of the Smart Pass previously Saving Pass means Companys AGM.
the Ocado pre-pay membership scheme which includes the delivery pricing scheme previously Ocado.
com means the Groups online retail known as Delivery Pass and the discount business.
membership scheme formerly known as Ocado Council means the Ocado forum used Saving Pass.
to consult with our employees.
