Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Section 1 Basis of Preparation 1.1 General Information Ocado Group plc hereafter the Company is a listed company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 07098618.
The address of its registered office is Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
The financial statements comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiaries hereafter the Group, see Note 5.1.
The Financial Period represents the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015.
The prior financial period represents the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 47.
1.2 Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority where applicable, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union IFRS-EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those described in the Annual Report and financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 of Ocado Group plc.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial asset investments and certain financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value.
The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements of the Group and Company.
Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Adopted by the Group in 2014 15 or Issued that are Effective The Group has considered the following new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 1 December 2014 and concluded that they are either not relevant to the Group or that they would not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements: Effective Date IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 July 2014 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2014 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 1 January 2014 The amendments for investment entities which are effective in IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, above, are not relevant for the Group.
Amendments regarding the application of the consolidation exception for IFRS 10 and IFRS 12 are effective from 1 January 2016, and amendments regarding the reinstatement of the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial statements are effective from 1 January 2016, and are included in the table below.
Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Issued that are not Effective, and which have not been Early Adopted by the Group The following further new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards and interpretations which are relevant to the Group have been issued but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 December 2014 and have not been adopted early: Effective Date IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2016 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2016 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2016 IAS 38 Intangible Assets 1 January 2016 Various Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs including those arising from the IASBs annual improvements project.
Various The following new standards are not yet effective and the impact on the Group is currently under review: - IFRS 16 Leases provides guidance on the classification, recognition and measurement of leases to help provide useful information to the users of financial statements.
The main aim of this standard is to ensure all leases will be reflected on the balance sheet, irrespective of substance over form.
The new standard will replace IAS 17 Leases and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 unless adopted early.
The Group is currently reviewing the impact of IFRS 16.
com Our Financials 1.3 Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company, all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint ventures.
Subsidiaries The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which power over the operating and financial decisions is obtained and cease to be consolidated from the date on which power is transferred out of the Group.
Power is achieved when the Company has the ability and right, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity.
This ability enables the Company to affect the amount of economic benefit generated from the entitys activities.
This is evident for all of the Groups subsidiaries per Note 5.1.
With the exception of Ocado Polska Sp.
Z. o. o. all subsidiaries have a year end of 29 November 2015.
The Poland Accounting Act requires a financial year to be twelve full calendar months from the prior year end date.
Z. o. o has a year end of 30 November 2015.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including recognised gains arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as recognised gains except to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
Joint Ventures The Groups share of the results of joint ventures is included in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of the investments in joint ventures include acquired goodwill.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out in the relevant notes to these financial statements.
Accounting policies not specifically attributable to a note are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Foreign Currency Translation Functional and Presentation Currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Sterling is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and Balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement within finance income or finance costs.
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within operating profit.
Group Companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: a. assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: b. income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and c. all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
1.4 Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates, Judgements and Assumptions The preparation of the Group financial statements requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate was based or as a result of new information or more experience.
Significant accounting policies, estimates and assumptions, and judgements are provided below.
133 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Accounting policies that are significant due to the nature of business: Area Estimate Note Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services.
Revenue from the 2.1 recognition sale of goods is always recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the customer, which is upon delivery of the goods to the customers home.
Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised over the period in which services are rendered.
Significant Estimates and Assumptions: Area Estimate Note Cost of Sales At the period end the Group is required to estimate supplier income due from annual agreements for volume rebates, which span across the 2.1 year-end date.
Confirmation of some amounts due is often only received three to six months after the period end.
Share options The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured, where appropriate, with reference to the fair value at the date on 4.10 and other equity which they are granted.
Estimates applied or used in a valuation model in order to calculate the cost include, but are not limited to, instruments the expected life of the award, the number of awards that will ultimately vest and the expected volatility of the Companys share price.
Significant Judgements: Area Judgement Note Recognition of Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 2.8 deferred tax the temporary differences can be utilised.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the prudent forecasting of future assets taxable profits of the business and in applying an appropriate risk adjustment factor.
Intangible assets The cost of internally generated assets is capitalised as an intangible asset where it is determined by managements judgement 3.1 capitalisation of that the ability to develop the assets is technically feasible, will be completed, and that the asset will generate economic benefit software costs that outweighs its cost.
Exceptional The Group applies judgement in identifying the significant non-recurring items of income and expense that are recognised as 2.7 items exceptional to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Share options The selection of valuation models, such as the BlackScholes model, and parameters used in order to determine the fair value of 4.10 and other equity certain share awards requires judgement.
instruments Going concern In order to assess whether it is appropriate for the Group to be reported as a going concern, the Directors apply judgement, having undertaken 1.5 appropriate enquiries and having considered the business activities and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set on pages 38 to 41.
In arriving at this judgement there are a large number of assumptions and estimates involved in calculating these future cash flow projections.
This includes managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA, timing and quantum of future capital expenditure and estimates and cost of future funding.
The group is required to undergo an assessment of the future viability of assets grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The Directors judge that under the Groups current operating structure, the lowest level at which cash flows can be assessed is for the Group as a whole.
Other estimates, assumptions and judgements are applied by the Group.
These include, but not limited to, depreciation and amortisation on tangible and intangible assets respectively, and provisions.
These estimates, assumptions and judgements are also evaluated on a continual basis but are not significant.
1.5 Going Concern Basis including its Effect on the Impairment of Assets Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on a going concern basis.
There has been no material uncertainty identified which would cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue using the going concern basis of accounting for the 12 months following the approval of this Annual Report.
In assessing going concern, the Directors take into account the Groups cash flows, solvency and liquidity positions and borrowing facilities.
At period end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 45.8 million, external gross debt excluding finance leases payable to MHE JVCo of 53.3 million and net current liabilities of 59.5 million.
The Group has a mix of short and medium term finance arrangements and has an unutilised 210 million revolving credit facility which contains typical financial covenants and runs until July 2019.
The Group forecasts its liquidity requirements, working capital position and the maintenance of sufficient headroom against the financial covenants in its borrowing facilities see below.
The financial position of the Group, including information on cash flow, can be found in Our Financials on pages 127 to 131.
In determining whether there are material uncertainties, the Directors consider the Groups business activities, together with factors that are likely to affect its future development and position see section 7 on pages 16 to 23 and the Groups principal risks and the likely effectiveness of any mitigating actions and controls available to the Directors see pages 38 to 41.
Further details of the Groups considerations are provided in the Groups Viability and Going Concern Statement on page 39.
Impairment of Assets Based on the Separation of the Business into Cash Generating Units The Group is required to undergo an assessment of the future viability of assets grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Given the Groups current operating structure, the lowest level at which cash flows can reasonably be assessed is for the Group as a whole.
The Board does not consider that any further impairment of assets is required.
There are a large number of assumptions and estimates involved in calculating these future cash flow projections, including managements expectations of: Increase in Revenue: Growth in EBITDA: Timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: and Estimation and cost of future funding.
com Our Financials Section 2 Results for the Year 2.1 Profit Before Tax Accounting Policies Revenue The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 Revenue, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies.
Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services.
These are shown net of returns, relevant marketing vouchers offers and value added taxes.
Relevant vouchers offers include money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and offers such as buy three for the price of two.
Delivery and carrier bag receipts are included in revenue.
Revenue from the sale of goods is always recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred.
For deliveries performed by Ocado recognition of revenue is upon delivery of the goods to the customers home.
For goods which are delivered by third party couriers, revenue is recognised when the items have been transferred to the third party for onward delivery to the customer.
Income from Ocado Smart Pass, the Groups discounted pre-pay membership scheme, is recognised in the period to which it relates, on an accruals basis.
Initial licence contract revenues are recognised over a term which is specific to individual customer contracts.
For services, the term is the period over which services are rendered.
For the licence of technology assets, the revenue is recognised over a period consistent with the expected life of the related technology assets.
Annual licence contract revenues, including associated service and operational fees, are recognised as income in the relevant period.
Cost of Sales Cost of sales represents the cost of groceries and other products the Group sells, any associated licence fees which are driven by the volume of sales of specific products or product groups, including the branding and sourcing fees payable to Waitrose, adjustments to inventory and charges for transportation of goods from a supplier to a CFC.
Commercial Income The Group continues to have agreements with suppliers whereby promotional allowances and volume-related rebates are received in connection with the promotion or purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
The allowances and rebates are included in cost of sales.
In FY15 promotional allowances represent 85% of commercial income, with volume-related rebates representing 15%.
Promotional Allowances Cost of sales also includes monies received from suppliers in relation to the agreed funding of selected items that are sold by the Group on promotion and is recognised once the promotional activity has taken place in the period to which it relates on an accruals basis.
The estimates required for this source of income are limited because the time periods of promotional activity, in most cases, are less than one month and the invoicing for the activity occurs on a regular basis shortly after the promotions have ended.
Volume-Related Rebates At the period end the Group is required to estimate supplier income due from annual agreements for volume rebates, which span across the year-end date.
Estimates are required due to the fact that confirmation of some amounts due is often only received three to six months after the period end.
Where estimates are required, these are based on current performance, historical data for prior years and a review of significant supplier contracts.
A material amount of this income is received from third parties via the Groups supply agreement with Waitrose.
The estimates for this income are prepared following discussions with Waitrose throughout the year and regularly reviewed by senior management.
Uncollected Commercial Income Uncollected commercial income as at balance sheet date is classified within trade and other receivables.
Where commercial income has been earned, but not yet invoiced at the balance sheet date, the amount is recorded in accrued income.
Other Income Other income comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for advertising services provided by Ocado to suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, commission income, rental income, sublease payments receivable and amounts receivable not in the ordinary course of business.
Income for advertising services is recognised over the particular time period for which the service is provided on an accruals basis.
An adjustment is made at the period end to accrue the amount of income in relation to campaigns that may span the period end, however such adjustments are not typically material.
Employee Benefits The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of its staff through two pension plans: a defined contribution Group personal pension administered by Standard Life, and a defined contribution Money Purchase Scheme administered by Peoples Pensions.
Employer contributions to the schemes are calculated as a percentage of salary based on length of scheme membership.
Contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
135 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.1 Profit Before Tax continued Distribution Costs Distribution costs consist of all the costs incurred, excluding product costs, to the point of sale.
In most cases, this is the customers home.
This includes the payroll-related expenses for the picking, dispatch and delivery of products sold to the point of sale, the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the operating costs of the properties required for the picking, dispatch and onward delivery operations and all associated depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, call centre costs and payment processing charges.
This includes costs incurred on behalf of Morrisons which are subsequently recharged.
Administrative Expenses Administrative expenses consist of all IT costs, advertising and marketing expenditure excluding vouchers, share-based payments costs, employment costs of all central functions, which include board, legal, finance, human resources, marketing and procurement, rent and other property-related costs for the head office, all fees for professional services and the depreciation, amortisation and impairment associated with IT equipment, software, fixtures and fittings.
Additionally, this includes costs incurred on behalf of Morrisons which are subsequently recharged.
Exceptional Items The Group has adopted an income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results for the year.
The Group believes this format is useful as it highlights one-off items, such as material set-up costs for new fulfilment warehouses, reorganisation and restructuring costs, profit or loss on disposal of operations, and impairment of assets.
Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, are items that due to their material and or non-recurring nature, as determined by management, have been classified separately in order to draw them to the attention of the reader of the financial statements and to avoid distortion of underlying performance.
This facilitates comparison with prior periods to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
It is determined by management that each of these items relates to events or circumstances that are non-recurring in nature.
The Group applies judgement in identifying the significant non-recurring items of income and expense that are recognised as exceptional to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of items that the Group considers as exceptional include, but are not limited to, material costs relating to the opening of a new warehouse, corporate reorganisations and any material costs, outside of the normal course of business as determined by management.
2.2 Segmental Reporting The Groups principal activities are grocery retailing and the development and monetisation of Intellectual Property IP and technology used for the online retailing, logistics and distribution of grocery and consumer goods, currently derived solely from the UK.
The Group is not reliant on any major customer for 10% or more of its revenue.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, an operating segment is defined as a business activity whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker CODM and for which discrete information is available.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the CODM, as required by IFRS 8.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors.
The principal activities of the Group are currently managed as one segment.
Consequently, all activities relate to this segment.
The CODMs main indicator of performance of the segment is EBITDA, which is reconciled to operating profit below the income statement.
2.3 Gross Sales A reconciliation of revenue to gross sales is as follows: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Revenue 1,107.6 948.9 VAT 82.4 66.3 Marketing vouchers 14.4 11.3 Gross sales 1,204.4 1,026.5 136 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 2.4 Other Income A breakdown of other income is as follows: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Media and other income 35.3 28.0 Rental income 13.7 11.4 Other income 49.0 39.4 2.5 Operating Expenses 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Notes m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 715.3 621.1 Employment costs 2.6 212.8 168.9 Amortisation expense 3.1 13.2 12.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3.2 45.1 40.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, included in: 3.2 1.0 1.1 Distribution costs 1.0 1.0 Administrative expenses 0.1 Impairment of intangible assets, included in: Administrative expenses 3.1 0.8 1.5 Impairment of receivables 3.8 0.8 0.5 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 10.3 9.4 Other leases 0.3 0.5 Net foreign exchange movements 0.2 During the period, the Group obtained the following services from its auditors: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidation Statutory Group and Company audit 57 60 Fees payable to the Company auditor for other services Statutory audit of subsidiaries 230 184 Non-audit fees 37 35 Audit related services 30 28 354 307 137 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.6 Employee Information Employment costs during the financial period were as follows: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Staff Costs During the Period: Wages and salaries 206.8 165.8 Social security costs 18.1 14.6 Other pension costs 5.1 4.1 Share-based payment expense 9.9 6.0 Total gross employment costs 239.9 190.5 Staff costs capitalised to Intangible assets 21.3 17.3 Staff costs capitalised to property, plant and equipment 5.8 4.3 Total Employment Cost Expense 212.8 168.9 Average Monthly Number of Employees including Executive Directors by Function Operational staff 7,453 6,001 Support staff 1,241 1,004 8,694 7,005 Included in the share-based payment expense is the IFRS 2 charge of 7.8 million 2014: 4.4 million and an additional provision of 2.1 million 2014: 1.6 million for the payment of amounts due to participants of the Cash LTIP and employers NIC upon allotment of the share awards.
2.7 Exceptional items 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Corporate Restructure 0.3 0.3 Prior Year Corporate Restructure During the prior year, the Group undertook a corporate restructuring.
The Groups business was split between a number of legal entities in order to reflect broadly the operational division of the business.
To assist the restructuring the Group sought tax, accountancy and legal advice, for which a number of one-off costs were incurred.
com Our Financials 2.8 Taxation Accounting Policies The tax charge for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Current Taxation Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred Taxation Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of reversal of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the prudent forecasting of future taxable profits of the business and in applying an appropriate risk adjustment factor.
The final outcome of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
At the balance sheet date management has forecast that the Group would generate future taxable profits against which existing tax losses could be relieved.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Taxation Income Statement 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Recognised in the income statement Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits of the period 0.1 Overseas corporation tax on profits of the period 0.1 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.1 0.3 Total Current Tax 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax: 0.3 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.2 Total Deferred Tax 0.1 Income Tax Expense credit 0.1 0.1 139 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.8 Taxation continued The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to losses of the Group as follows: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 11.9 7.2 Effective tax credit at the UK tax rate of 20.3% 2014: 21.7% 2.4 1.5 Effect of: Utilisation of brought forward losses 0.2 Permanent differences 1.8 1.8 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.6 Release of deferred tax on capitalised R&D 0.4 Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset recognised 0.3 Temporary differences on which no deferred tax recognised 4.8 3.1 Prior year adjustments 0.1 Income Tax Charge credit for the Period 0.1 0.1 As enacted in Finance Act 2014, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
Accordingly, the effective rate for the period is 20.3%.
Taxation Balance Sheet Movement in the deferred tax asset is as follows: 52 Weeks Ended 29 November 2015 m Tax Losses Carry Forwards As at 1 December 2013 7.9 Recognised through the income statement 1.5 As at 30 November 2014 9.4 Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 0.9 Recognised through the income statement 1.5 As at 29 November 2015 10.0 As enacted in the Finance Act No.
Deferred tax has been provided at the rate enacted at the balance sheet date.
Movement in the unrecognised deferred tax asset is analysed below: Tax Losses Accelerated Other ShortCarried Capital Term Timing Forward Allowances Differences Total m m m m As at 1 December 2013 48.3 17.0 65.3 Potential movement in the period unrecognised through: Income statement 0.7 2.0 0.5 2.2 As at 30 November 2014 47.6 15.0 0.5 63.1 Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 4.8 1.5 6.3 Potential movement in the period unrecognised through: Income statement 1.1 8.0 0.5 9.6 As at 29 November 2015 41.7 5.5 47.2 140 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 2.8 Taxation continued As at 29 November 2015 the Group had approximately 287.8 million of unutilised tax losses 2014: approximately 285.3 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 10.0 million 2014: 9.4 million has been recognised in respect of 55.6 million 2014: 47.0 million of such losses, the recovery of which is supported by the expected level of future profits of the Group.
The recognition of the deferred tax asset is based on forecasted operating results calculated in approved business plans and a review of tax planning opportunities.
Management have concluded that there is sufficient evidence for the recognition of the deferred tax asset of 10.0 million 2014: 9.4 million.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain given the unpredictability of future profit streams.
All tax losses, both recognised and unrecognised, can be carried forward indefinitely.
Movement in the recognised deferred tax liability is analysed below: m As at 1 December 2013 0.4 Recognised through the income statement 1.6 As at 30 November 2014 2.0 Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 0.2 Recognised through the income statement 0.9 As at 29 November 2015 2.7 For the year ended 29 November 2015 the Group has recognised a deferred tax liability of 2.7 million 2014: 2.0 million.
Of this amount, 2.3 million 2014: 1.7 million is in respect of intangible assets that management assessed as qualifying for research and development corporation tax relief.
The timing of the tax deductions in respect of expenditure incurred on these assets differs to the amortisation profile of the assets giving rise to the deferred tax liability.
This liability will be unwound over the useful lives of the assets.
In a prior period, the Group recognised a deferred tax liability of 1.7 million in respect of intangible assets that management assessed as qualifying for research and development corporation tax relief.
After corporation tax relief, the timing of tax deductions in respect of expenditure incurred on these assets differs to the amortisation profile of the assets giving rise to the deferred tax liability.
2.9 Profit Per Share Basic profit per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares held pursuant to the Groups JSOS on an allocated basis which are accounted for as treasury shares.
Diluted profit per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion or vesting of all dilutive potential shares.
The Company has two 2014: two classes of instruments that are potentially dilutive, namely share options and shares held pursuant to the JSOS.
Basic and diluted profit per share has been calculated as follows: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Number of Number of Shares m Shares m Issued shares at the beginning of the period, excluding treasury shares 586.1 582.5 Effect of share options exercised in the period 2.2 2.1 Effect of treasury shares disposed of in the period 0.3 Effect of shares issued in the period Weighted average number of shares at the end of the period for basic earnings per share 588.3 584.9 Potentially dilutive share options and shares 31.1 29.4 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares 619.4 614.3 m m Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 11.8 7.3 pence pence Basic profit per share 2.01 1.24 Diluted profit per share 1.91 1.18 The only transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of these financial statements were the exercise of 16,754 share options under the company ESOS scheme, 2,903 share options under the SAYE3 scheme and the issue of 28,463 Partnership Shares under the SIP.
141 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section 3 Assets and Liabilities 3.1 Intangible Assets Accounting Policies Intangible Assets Intangible assets comprise internally generated assets relating mainly to computer software and other intangible assets relating mainly to externally acquired computer software and assets, and the right to use land.
These are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Other intangible assets such as externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of three to fifteen years, with the majority of such assets having useful lives of three to seven years.
Costs relating to the development of computer software for internal use are capitalised once all the development phase recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised in equal annual amounts over the estimated useful life of the software.
Amortisation and impairment of computer software or licences are charged to administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
For the Groups impairment policy on non-financial assets see Note 3.2.
Amortisation on intangible assets is calculated on a straight-line basis from the date on which they are brought into use, charged to administrative expenses, and is calculated based on the useful lives indicated below Internally generated assets 35 years, or the lease term if shorter Other intangible assets 315 years, or the lease term if shorter Right to use land The estimated useful economic life, or the lease term if shorter Amortisation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Cost Capitalisation The cost of internally generated assets are capitalised as an intangible asset where it is determined by managements judgement that the ability to develop the assets is technically feasible, will be completed, and that the asset will generate economic benefit that outweighs its cost.
This is in line with the recognition criteria as outlined in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Management determine whether the nature of the projects meet the recognition criteria to allow for the capitalisation of internal costs, which include the total cost of any external products or services and labour costs directly attributable to development.
During the year management have considered whether costs in relation to the time spent on specific software projects can be capitalised.
Time spent that was eligible for capitalisation included time which was intrinsic to the development of new assets to be used or monetised by the Group, the enhancement of existing warehouse and routing systems capabilities, or improvements to applications used by the Groups customers.
Other development costs that do not meet the above criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
These are costs that form part of the intent of gaining new knowledge, which management assess as not satisfying the capitalisation criteria per IAS 38 Intangible Assets as outlined above.
Examples of research costs include, but are not limited to, the following: salaries and benefits of employees assessing and analysing future technologies and their likely viability, and professional fees such as marketing costs and the cost of third party consultancy.
In certain circumstances, some assets are ready for use, but are not performing as intended by management.
Development costs that relate to the enhancement or modifications of existing assets are capitalised until the asset is performing as intended by management.
Management assess the capitalisation of these costs by consulting the guidance outlined in IAS 38 Intangible Assets and exercise judgement in determining the qualifying costs.
When unsure if the enhancement or modification costs relate to the development of the asset or are maintenance expenditure in nature, management treat the expenditure as if it were incurred in the research phase only in line with IAS 38 guidance.
Internally generated assets consist primarily of costs relating to intangible assets which provide economic benefit independent of other assets, and intangible assets that are utilised in the operation of property, plant and equipment.
These intangible assets are required for certain tangible assets to operate as intended by management.
Management assess each material internally generated asset addition and consider whether it is integral to the successful operation of a related item of hardware, can be used across a number of applications and therefore whether the asset should be recognised as property, plant and equipment.
If the asset could be used on other existing or future projects it will be recognised as an intangible asset.
For example, should an internally generated asset, such as the software code to enhance the operation of existing CFC equipment, be expected to form the foundation or a substantial element of future software development, it has been recognised as an intangible asset.
Of the internally generated assets capitalised, 19% 2014:20% relates to asset additions within property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of Useful Life The charge in respect of periodic amortisation is derived by estimating an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a reduced amortisation charge in the income statement.
The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired and brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
For computer software licences, the useful life represents managements view of the expected period over which the Group will receive benefits from the software.
For unique software products developed and controlled by the Group, the life is based on historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their useful life, such as changes in technology.
Where the right to use land has been granted, the period over which the amortisation is charged is the lower of the estimated useful economic life and the lease expiry date.
com Our Financials 3.1 Intangible Assets continued Internally Other Total Generated Intangible Intangible Assets Assets Assets m m m Cost At 1 December 2013 58.0 13.4 71.4 Additions 8.0 8.0 Internal development costs capitalised 17.3 17.3 Disposals 9.7 8.2 17.9 At 30 November 2014 65.6 13.2 78.8 Additions 4.4 4.4 Internal development costs capitalised 24.1 24.1 Disposals 6.7 6.7 At 29 November 2015 83.0 17.6 100.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 December 2013 33.3 11.1 44.4 Charge for the period 11.5 0.9 12.4 Impairment 1.5 1.5 Disposals 9.7 8.2 17.9 At 30 November 2014 36.6 3.8 40.4 Charge for the period 12.4 0.8 13.2 Impairment 0.8 0.8 Disposals 6.7 6.7 At 29 November 2015 43.1 4.6 47.7 Net book value At 30 November 2014 29.0 9.4 38.4 At 29 November 2015 39.9 13.0 52.9 The net book value of intangibles held under finance leases is analysed below: 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Cost 13.8 13.2 Accumulated amortisation 9.3 7.2 Net Book Value 4.5 6.0 For the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015, internal development costs capitalised represented approximately 85% 2014: 68% of expenditure on intangible assets and 19% 2014: 15% of total capital spend including property, plant and equipment.
143 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.2 Property, Plant and Equipment Accounting Policies Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment excluding land are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset, any costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use and major spares.
An item of property, plant and equipment is recognised as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the entity, and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment represents 55% of the total asset base of the Group in 2015 2014: 51%.
The estimates and assumptions made to determine the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and related depreciation are important to the Groups financial position and performance.
Management assess the estimates and assumptions based on available external information and historical experience.
In determining the cost of property, plant and equipment, certain costs that relate to the intangible element of an asset are separately disclosed within Intangible assets, Note 3.1.
Management exercise judgement to review each material asset addition and consider whether the intangible asset element can be used for other property, plant and equipment additions in the current or future years.
Software written for the Groups first CFC in Hatfield is identified as a standalone intangible asset, because it has provided the foundation for software used in some areas of CFC2, and is expected to provide part of the foundation of software used in future centres including CFC3.
For more information on the Groups policy on capitalisation of borrowings costs, see Note 4.1.
Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is charged to distribution costs and administrative expenses and is calculated based on the useful lives indicated below: Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 25 years, or the lease term if shorter Fixtures and fittings 510 years, or the lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 320 years, or the lease term if shorter Motor vehicles 27 years, or the lease term if shorter Land is held at cost and not depreciated.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and other directly attributable costs.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use, on the same basis as other property assets.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with the assets carrying amount and are recognised within operating profit.
Estimation of Useful Life Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the cost of the relevant assets less their estimated residual values by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives.
Residual values and expected useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived by estimating an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the income statement.
The useful lives of the Groups assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually for appropriateness.
Management also assess the useful lives based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their useful life, such as changes in technology.
Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets An annual impairment review is performed on assets with indefinite useful lives.
Those which do not have indefinite useful lives are subject to an annual depreciation or amortisation charge.
These assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Given the Groups current operating structure the lowest level at which cash flows can reasonably be assessed is the Group as a whole.
The Group prepares detailed forward projections which are constantly updated and refined.
Based on these projections the Board does not consider that any further impairment of assets is required, other than that recognised in the income statement.
The net book value of non-current assets held under finance leases is set out below: Fixtures, Land and Fittings, Plant Motor Buildings and Machinery Vehicles Total m m m m At 30 November 2014 Cost 30.3 203.7 46.5 280.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 16.3 73.9 21.6 111.8 Net book value 14.0 129.8 24.9 168.7 At 29 November 2015 Cost 30.3 207.0 54.5 291.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 17.9 92.7 20.8 131.4 Net Book Value 12.4 114.3 33.7 160.4 Property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 18.8 million 2014: 13.3 million has been pledged as security for the secured loans Note 4.1.
145 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.3 Financial Assets Accounting Policies Financial Assets Financial assets comprise available-for-sale financial assets and prepaid fees in relation to financing activities.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivatives that are not designated as held for trading or that are not designated as at fair value through profit and loss.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Management considers that the Groups investments fall within this category as explained below.
Prepaid fees in relation to financing activities are recognised when incurred.
The prepaid fees are amortised in proportion to the draw down and utilisation of the underlying facility.
Amortisation will commence when the underlying facility is first utilised through to the earlier of the expected refinancing date or end of the term.
Any residual of the prepaid fee which is not amortised when the facility is refinanced or repaid will be charged to the Income Statement.
Investments Available-for-sale investments are held at fair value if this can be reliably measured.
If the equity instruments are not quoted in an active market and their fair value cannot be reliably measured, the available-for-sale investment is carried at cost, less accumulated impairment.
Unless the valuation falls below its original cost, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of available-for-sale assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal the cumulative net gain or loss is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
Valuations below cost are recognised as impairment losses in the income statement.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Unlisted equity investment cost and net book value 0.4 0.4 The unlisted equity investment comprises a 25% interest in Paneltex Limited Paneltex, a company incorporated in the UK, which has not been treated as an associated undertaking as the Group does not have significant influence over the company.
In arriving at this decision, the Board has reviewed the conditions set out in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and concluded that despite the size of its holding it is unable to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of Paneltex due to the position of the majority shareholder as Executive Managing Director.
The relationship between the Group and the company is at arms length.
The shares of Paneltex are not quoted in an active market and their fair value cannot be reliably measured.
As such, the investment in Paneltex is measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
The Group does not intend to dispose of this investment in the foreseeable future.
Prepaid financing fees The prepaid financing fees are in relation to financing facilities entered into during the year.
The non-current portion of prepaid finance costs relate to amounts capitalised during the year which will not be amortised to the Income Statement within the next twelve months.
As the facility has not been utilised there has been no amortisation in the year.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Prepaid financing fees 2.5 3.4 Investment in Joint Ventures Accounting Policies The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangement under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and determined it to be a joint venture.
The Groups share of the results of joint ventures is included in the Consolidated income statement and is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
On transfer of land and or work-in-progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses, namely that proportion sold outside the Group.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
com Our Financials 3.4 Investment in Joint Ventures continued Investment in Joint Ventures The Group has a 50% equity interest valued at 62.0 million 2014: 67.8 million in MHE JV Co, a joint venture company, incorporated in the UK, in which Morrisons and Ocado Operating Limited, a subsidiary in the Group are the sole investors.
In the current year the Group received a dividend of 8.1 million from MHE JVCo 2014: nil.
In the prior year the Group injected a 6.5 million capital contribution into MHE JV Co to finance the acquisition of CFC2 fixed assets.
The Groups share of profit after tax for the year is detailed as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Group share of revenue 3.1 2.7 Group share of expenses, inclusive of tax 0.8 0.3 Group Share of Profit after Tax 2.3 2.4 At the period end the Groups share of the net assets of MHE JVCo were valued at 62.0 million 2014: 67.8 million which is arrived at by taking into account the 2.3 million Group share of profit after tax and 8.1 million dividend paid by MHE JVCo to the Group.
For the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 the entity, MHE JVCo Limited, has recognised net interest income of 6.2 million 2014: 5.4 million.
Costs incurred by MHE JVCo include depreciation of 1.2 million 2014: 0.6 million and a tax charge of 0.4 million 2014: nil.
Material amounts held on its balance sheet as at 29 November 2015 include of finance lease receivables of 119.4 million 2014: 130.8 million, 8.9 million of property, plant and equipment 2014: 4.8 million, 0.5 million of cash and cash equivalents 2014: 2.7 million, and 5.6 million of trade and other payables 2014: 3.5 million, contributing towards net assets of 124.4 million.
Other than as a finance lessor to the Group, MHE JVCo has no other significant operations.
The principal place of business is the same as for Ocado Group plc, details of which are provided on page 132.
3.5 Business Combinations Accounting Policies Business Combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate fair value of the consideration given.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the date the Group assumes control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the Consolidated income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement measured at fair value at the date control is achieved.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Investments in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is the excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
There were no investments in new subsidiaries during the 52 weeks to 29 November 2015.
In the prior year Speciality Stores Limited, a Group subsidiary, acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Paws & Purrs Ltd, obtaining control of the entity for consideration of 15,000, resulting in goodwill of 10,000.
3.6 Working Capital Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale, fuel and other consumable goods.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value as provided in IAS 2 Inventories.
Goods held for resale and consumables are valued using the weighted average cost basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
It also takes into account slow-moving, obsolete and defective inventory.
Fuel stocks are valued at calculated average cost.
Costs include all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
There has been no security granted over inventory unless stated otherwise.
The Group have a mix of grocery and general merchandise items within inventory which have different characteristics.
For example, grocery lines have high inventory turnover, while non-food lines are typically held within inventory for a longer period of time and so run a higher risk of obsolescence.
As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Judgement is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of inventories such as slow-moving, obsolete and defective inventory, which includes reviewing the quantity, age and condition of inventories throughout the year.
147 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.6 Working Capital continued Loans and Receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period, which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables are included in Trade and other Receivables in the Balance sheet.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Other receivables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Any provision made against an impaired receivable is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against this same financial statement caption.
The outcome of an impaired receivable depends on future events which are by their nature uncertain.
In assessing the likely outcome, management bases its assessment on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, demand deposits with banks and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.
Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits are shown under current assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
They are therefore included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
3.7 Inventories 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Goods for resale 29.4 27.1 Consumables 0.5 0.5 29.9 27.6 Write-back of inventories recognised as a credit amounted to 0.2 million 2014: expense of 0.2 million in the consolidated income statement.
3.8 Trade and Other Receivables 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 31.0 12.6 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 1.7 3.0 Net trade receivables 29.3 9.6 Other receivables 4.8 7.3 Prepayments 10.7 6.6 Accrued income 16.0 19.6 60.8 43.1 Accrued income with a value of 14.4 million as at 30 November 2014 has been reclassified from other receivables to accrued income.
Included within trade receivables is a balance of 5.6 million 2014: 0.8 million owed by MHE JV Co.
Included in trade receivables is 4.3 million 2014: 5.0 million due from suppliers in relation to commercial and media income.
As at 22 January 2016 3.8 million has been received.
Included in accrued income is 9.5 million 2014: 8.9 million to be invoiced to suppliers in relation to supplier funded promotional activity and 5.5 million 2014: 7.9 million to be invoiced to suppliers in relation to volume-related rebate amounts.
As at 22 January 2016 12.9 million of accrued income has been invoiced.
com Our Financials 3.8 Trade and Other Receivables continued The ageing analysis of trade and other receivables excluding prepayments, including the provision for impairment, is set out below: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 43.8 30.9 2.0 Past due 03 months 8.0 1.7 6.7 0.3 Past due 36 months 1.3 0.2 Past due over 6 months 0.6 0.5 51.8 1.7 39.5 3.0 The provisions account for trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at that point, the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against trade receivables directly.
Impairment losses are included within administrative expenses in the Income statement.
Trade receivables that are past due but not impaired amount to 6.3 million 2014: 7.6 million and relate to a number of suppliers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Past due 03 months 6.3 6.4 Past due 36 months 1.1 Past due over 6 months 0.1 6.3 7.6 3.9 Cash and Cash Equivalents 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 45.8 76.3 4.7 million 2014: 2.3 million of the Groups cash and cash equivalents are held by the Groups captive insurance company to maintain its solvency requirements.
A further 0.1 million 2014: nil is held by the trustee of the Groups employee benefit trust in relation to the Ocado Group Sharesave Scheme for employees in Poland.
Therefore, these funds are restricted and are not available to circulate within the Group on demand.
3.10 Trade and Other Payables 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 63.6 61.3 Taxation and social security 5.8 4.8 Accruals and other payables 74.8 46.6 Deferred income 20.2 23.8 164.4 136.5 Deferred income represents the value of delivery income received under the Ocado Smart Pass scheme allocated to future periods, upfront licence fees from the Morrisons strategic operating agreement, lease incentives, and media income from suppliers which relate to future periods.
3.11 Provisions Accounting Policies Provisions are recognised in line with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Provisions can be distinguished from other types of liability by considering the events that give rise to the obligation and the degree of uncertainty as to the amount or timing of the liability.
These are recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The amounts recognised as a provision are managements best estimates of the expenditure to settle present obligations as at balance sheet date.
The outcome depends on future events, which are by their nature uncertain.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when this is determined.
In assessing the likely outcome, management base their assessment on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances.
149 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.11 Provisions continued Insurance Claims Provisions for insurance claims relate to potential motor insurance claims and potential public liability claims where accidents have occurred but a claim has yet to be made.
The provision is made based on estimates provided to Ocado by the third party manager of the Ocado Cell in Atlas Insurance PCC Limited the Ocado Cell.
Dilapidations Provisions for dilapidations are made in respect of vehicles and properties where there are obligations to return the vehicles and properties to the condition and state they were in when the Group obtained the right to use them.
These are recognised on a property-by-property basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash outflow.
Where relevant, these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
Employee Incentive Schemes Provisions for employee incentive schemes relate to HMRC unapproved equity settled schemes and the Cash-Based Long Term Incentive Plan Cash LTIP.
For all unapproved schemes and the Cash LTIP, the Group is liable to pay employers NIC upon allotment of the share awards.
Unapproved schemes are the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Chairmans Share Matching Award, the Growth Incentive Plan GIP and unapproved Executive Share Ownership Scheme ESOS.
For more details on these schemes, refer to note 4.10.
In the prior year, the Group established the Cash LTIP in order to incentivise selected high performing employees of the Company.
At the end of the three-year vesting period, employees will be paid a cash amount equal to the notional number of awards at the prevailing share price, adjusted for the achievement of the performance conditions.
Provisions Employee Insurance Incentive Claims Dilapidations Schemes Total m m m m As at 1 December 2013 0.8 2.9 3.7 Charged credited to the income statement additional provision 0.3 0.4 1.6 2.3 unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.1 Used during the period 0.2 0.1 0.3 As at 30 November 2014 0.9 3.1 1.6 5.6 Charged credited to the income statement additional provision 0.9 0.9 2.1 3.9 unused amounts reversed 0.4 0.4 Used during the period 0.1 0.1 Unwind of discount 0.1 0.1 As at 29 November 2015 1.4 4.0 3.7 9.1 Analysis of total provisions as at 30 November 2014 Employee Insurance Incentive Claims Dilapidations Schemes Total m m m m Current 0.2 0.2 0.4 Non-current 0.7 2.9 1.6 5.2 0.9 3.1 1.6 5.6 150 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 3.11 Provisions continued Analysis of total provisions as at 29 November 2015 Employee Insurance Incentive Claims Dilapidations Schemes Total m m m m Current 0.5 0.2 2.1 2.8 Non-current 0.9 3.8 1.6 6.3 1.4 4.0 3.7 9.1 Insurance Claims The Ocado Cell uses statistical information built up over several years to estimate, as accurately as possible, the future out-turn of the total claims value incurred but not reported as at the balance sheet date.
In practice the Ocado Cell receives newly reported claims after the end of the underwriting period that have to be allocated to the year of loss i. e. the underwriting year of occurrence.
The calculation of this provision involves estimating a number of variables, principally the level of claims which may be received and the level of any compensation which may be payable.
Uncertainty associated with these factors may result in the ultimate liability being different from the reported provision.
Although it is expected that 0.5 million claims will be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the exact timing of utilisation of the provision is uncertain.
Dilapidations The dilapidations provision is based on the future expected repair costs required to restore the Groups leased buildings and vehicles to their fair condition at the end of their respective lease terms.
The CFC1 lease expires in 2032, the CFCF2 lease expires in 2038, head office leases expire between 2016 and 2019, with leases for the spokes expiring up to 2068.
Contractual amounts are due to be incurred at the end of the respective lease terms.
Leases for vehicles run for five years, with the contractual obligation per vehicle payable at the end of the five-year lease term.
If a non-contractual option to extend individual leases for a further six months is exercised by the Group, the contractual obligation remains the same but is deferred by six months.
Employee Incentive Schemes The provision consists of the Cash LTIP and employers NIC on HMRC unapproved equity-settled schemes.
The Cash LTIP provision represents the expected cash payments to participants upon vesting of the awards.
It has been calculated using various assumptions regarding liquidity, participants retention and achievability of the performance conditions, and valued with reference to the year-end share price.
If at any point following initial valuation any of these assumptions are revised, the charge will need to be amended accordingly.
In addition to the base cost, since this is a cash benefit, the Group will be liable to pay employers NIC on the value of the cash award upon allotment, which is included in the above employers NIC provision.
To calculate the employers NIC provision, the applicable employers NIC rate is applied to the number of share awards which are expected to vest, valued with reference to the year-end share price.
The number of share awards expected to vest is dependent on various assumptions which are determined by management: namely participants retention rate, the expectation of meeting the performance criteria, if any, and the liquidity discount.
All assumptions are supported by historical trends and internal financial forecasts, where appropriate.
For the GIP, an external valuation was carried out to determine the fair value of the awards granted see Note 4.10 g. If at any point during the life of each share award, any non-market conditions are subject to change, such as the retention rate or the likelihood of the performance condition being met, the number of share awards likely to vest will need to be recalculated which will cause the value of the employers NIC provision to change accordingly.
Once the share awards under each of the schemes have vested, the provision will be utilised when they are allocated to participants.
Vesting will occur between 2016 and 2019.
151 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs 4.1 Leases and Borrowings Accounting Policies Borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being capitalised to qualifying assets or recognised in the Consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings on the effective interest rate basis.
Leased Assets Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
For property leases, the land and building elements are accounted for separately after determining the appropriate lease classification.
The Group follows the guidance of IAS 17 Leases to determine the classification of leases as operating leases versus finance leases.
The classification of a lease as a finance lease as opposed to an operating lease will change EBITDA as the charge made by the lessor will pass through finance charges and depreciation will be charged on the capitalised asset.
Retained earnings may also be affected depending on the relative size of the amounts apportioned to capital repayments and depreciation.
IAS 17 Leases requires the Group to consider splitting property leases into their component parts i. e. land and building elements.
As only the building elements could be considered as a finance lease, management must make a judgement, based on advice from suitable experts, as to the relative value of the land and buildings.
Finance Leases Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised either as property, plant and equipment, or intangible assets, as appropriate, and are depreciated amortised over their estimated useful lives or the lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, measured at the inception of the lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities, net of attributable transaction costs.
Finance costs on finance leases are charged directly to the income statement on the effective interest rate basis.
Operating Leases Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Sale and Leaseback A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease with the buyer.
The leaseback transaction is classified as a finance lease when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leasebacks are classified as operating leases.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, the assets are expected to be sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
Lease Incentives Lease incentives primarily include upfront cash payments or rent-free periods.
Lease incentives are capitalised and released against the relevant rental expense over the lease term.
4.2 Borrowings and Finance Leases 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Notes m m Current Liabilities Borrowings 4.2 1.6 4.4 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 26.5 26.5 28.1 30.9 Non-Current Liabilities Borrowings 4.2 7.7 2.3 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 137.0 142.5 144.7 144.8 Total Borrowings and Finance Leases 172.8 175.7 152 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 4.2 Borrowings and Finance Leases continued Borrowings Between Between Less than one year and two years and one year two years five years Total m m m m As at 30 November 2014 Secured loans 4.4 1.8 0.5 6.7 Total Borrowings 4.4 1.8 0.5 6.7 As at 29 November 2015 Secured loans 1.6 1.5 6.2 9.3 Total Borrowings 1.6 1.5 6.2 9.3 The secured loans outstanding at period end can be analysed as follows: Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at Final 29 November 30 November Principal amount Secured Current Instalment payment 2015 2014 m Inception over interest rate frequency due m m 8.0 May07 Property, plant Clearing bank Quarterly Feb15 0.8 and equipment base rate 3.0% 1.5 Dec06 Freehold property LIBOR 2.75% Quarterly Feb15 0.4 1.5 Feb09 Freehold property LIBOR 2.75% Quarterly Feb15 0.6 2.8 Dec09 Freehold property LIBOR 2.75% Quarterly Dec15 1.5 2.6 Jul12 Freehold property LIBOR 2.75% Quarterly Jul15 1.9 2.5 Jul12 Property, plant 9.12% Monthly Jul17 1.1 1.5 and equipment 8.2 Sept15 Freehold Property LIBOR 1.5% Quarterly Sept18 8.2 9.3 6.7 Disclosed as: Current 1.6 4.4 Non-current 7.7 2.3 9.3 6.7 Calculated as the effective interest rate, the calculation of which includes an optional balloon payment at the end of the term.
In the prior year a three-year 100 million revolving credit facility was entered into with Barclays, HSBC, RBS and Santander.
In the current year the Group amended and extended this unsecured RCF.
The facility was increased to 210 million and extended by two years to 1 July 2019.
As at 29 November 2015 the facility remains unutilised.
The facility contains typical restrictions concerning dividend payments and additional debt and leases.
4.3 Obligations Under Finance Leases 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Obligations under finance leases due: Within one year 26.5 26.5 Between one and two years 23.8 22.4 Between two and five years 62.1 56.0 After five years 51.1 64.1 Total obligations under finance leases 163.5 169.0 External obligations under finance leases are 44.0 million 2014: 38.2 million excluding 119.5 million 2014: 130.8 million payable to MHE JV Co, a joint venture company.
153 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.3 Obligations Under Finance Leases continued 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Minimum lease payments due: Within one year 34.8 34.9 Between one and two years 30.3 29.3 Between two and five years 75.0 70.4 After five years 55.3 71.0 195.4 205.6 Less: future finance charges 31.9 36.6 Present value of finance lease liabilities 163.5 169.0 Disclosed as: Current 26.5 26.5 Non-current 137.0 142.5 163.5 169.0 The existing finance lease arrangements entered into by the Group contain no restrictions concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Furthermore, no material leasing arrangements exist relating to contingent rent payable, renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses.
4.4 Analysis of Net Debt Net debt 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Notes m m Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 45.8 76.3 Current Liabilities Borrowings 4.1 1.6 4.4 Obligations under finance leases 4.1 26.5 26.5 28.1 30.9 Non-Current Liabilities Borrowings 4.1 7.7 2.3 Obligations under finance leases 4.1 137.0 142.5 144.7 144.8 Total Net Debt 127.0 99.4 Net debt is 7.5 million 2014: net cash 31.4 million, excluding finance lease obligations of 119.5 million 2014: 130.8 million payable to MHE JVCo, a joint venture company.
4.8 million 2014: 2.3 million of the Groups cash and cash equivalents are considered to be restricted and are not available to circulate within the Group on demand.
For more information see Note 3.9.
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 30.5 34.2 Net increase decrease in debt and lease financing 24.3 33.4 Non-cash movements: Assets acquired under finance lease 21.4 47.7 Movement in Net Debt in the Period 27.6 48.5 Opening net debt 99.4 50.9 Closing Net Debt 127.0 99.4 154 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 4.5 Finance Income and Costs Accounting Policies Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalisable.
They are defined as the borrowing costs that would have been avoided if the expenditure on the qualifying asset had not been made.
All other borrowing costs which are not capitalised are charged to finance costs, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance Income and Costs Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise obligations on finance leases and borrowings and are recognised in the period in which they fall due.
Finance Income and Costs 52 Weeks 52 Weeks Ended Ended 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Interest on cash balances 0.2 0.4 Finance Income 0.2 0.4 Borrowing costs Obligations under finance leases 8.8 8.7 Borrowings 0.6 0.9 Fair value movement in derivative 0.2 0.1 Fair value movement on provisions 0.1 Finance Costs 9.7 9.5 Net Finance Costs 9.5 9.1 The fair value movement in derivative financial instruments arose from fair value adjustments on the Groups cash flow hedges.
4.6 Derivative Financial Instruments Accounting Policies Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
At 29 November 2015 the Groups derivative financial instruments consist of commodity swap contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges of highly probable transactions.
At 30 November 2014 the Groups derivative financial instruments consisted of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group documents at the inception of the hedge the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, the risk management objectives and strategy and its assessment of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
This assessment is performed retrospectively at each financial reporting period.
Movements on the hedging reserve within shareholders equity are shown in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash Flow Hedging The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Amounts accumulated through other comprehensive income are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of property, plant and equipment, the gains or losses previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset and are ultimately recognised in profit or loss within the depreciation expense.
During the period all of the Groups cash flow hedges were effective and there is therefore no ineffective portion recognised in profit or loss.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Derivative Liability Commodity swap contracts 0.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.2 0.7 0.2 155 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.6 Derivative Financial Instruments continued Commodity Swap Contracts The notional principal amounts of the outstanding commodity swap contracts at 29 November 2015 were 3.2 million 2014: nil.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions are expected to occur at various dates during the next twelve months.
Cumulative gains and losses of 1.1 million have been recognised in the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income of which 0.7 million is the balance at year end.
These losses are recognised in the income statement in periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts There were no outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 29 November 2015.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 30 November 2014 were 3.8 million.
The corresponding amount in sterling as at 30 November 2014 was 2014: 3.2 million.
There are no cumulative gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income 2014: 0.4 million of losses.
These gains were recognised in the income statement in periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affected the income statement, which for property, plant and equipment is over the useful life of the asset 3 to 10 years.
4.7 Financial Instruments Accounting Policies Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: Available-for-sale: Loans and receivables: Other financial liabilities at amortised cost: and Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets and liabilities were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition or in certain circumstances on modification.
Offsetting Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of Financial Assets Assets Carried at Amortised Cost The Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired at the end of each reporting period.
A financial asset is impaired and an impairment loss recognised if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a loss event that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss include but are not limited to: Financial difficulty indicators: Breach of contract such as missed payments: Fraud: Bankruptcy: and Disappearance of an active market.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying value is reduced and the loss recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the Income statement.
Available-For-Sale Financial Assets Equity investments classified as available-for-sale and held at cost are reviewed annually to identify if an impairment loss has occurred.
The amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity investments are not reversed.
com Our Financials 4.7 Financial Instruments continued Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet comprise the derivative assets and liabilities see Note 4.6.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of these financial instruments: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly level 2 : Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data level 3.
The Groups derivative assets and liabilities are all classified as level 2.
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all financial instruments that are included in the financial statements: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Carrying Value Fair Value Carrying Value Fair Value Notes 000 000 000 000 Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 45.8 45.8 76.3 76.3 Trade receivables 3.8 29.3 29.3 9.6 9.6 Other receivables incl.
prepayments 3.8 20.8 20.8 26.9 26.9 Non-current financial assets 3.3 2.8 2.8 0.4 0.4 Total financial assets 98.7 98.7 113.2 113.2 Financial Liabilities Trade payables 3.10 63.6 63.6 61.3 61.3 Accruals and other payables 3.10 74.8 74.8 46.6 46.6 Borrowings 4.2 9.3 9.3 6.7 6.7 Finance lease obligations 4.3 163.5 163.5 169.0 169.0 Derivative liabilities 4.6 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 Total financial liabilities 311.9 311.9 283.8 283.8 The derivative liabilities relate to forward commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
The Groups only available-for-sale financial asset consists of an unlisted equity investment of which the fair value cannot be reliably determined, and which is therefore measured at cost.
There has been no movement in this investment during the period.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and accruals of a maturity of less than one financial period are assumed to approximate to their carrying values but for completeness are included in this analysis.
The interest rate used to discount borrowings is based on a LIBOR plus margin measure blended for the type of security offered and was calculated as 3.0% 2014: 3.0%.
The fair values of all other financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing market interest rates.
The Group has categorised its financial instruments as follows: Financial Financial Liabilities at Fair AvailableLoans and Liabilities at Value Through for-Sale Receivables Amortised Cost Profit and Loss Total Notes m m m m m As at 30 November 2014 Financial Assets as per the Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 76.3 76.3 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 3.8 36.5 36.5 Financial assets 3.3 0.4 0.4 Total 0.4 112.8 113.2 Financial Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet Trade payables 3.10 61.3 61.3 Accruals 3.10 46.6 46.6 Borrowings 4.2 6.7 6.7 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 169.0 169.0 Derivative liabilities 4.6 0.2 0.2 Total 283.6 0.2 283.8 157 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.7 Financial Instruments continued Financial Financial Liabilities Liabilities at Fair Value AvailableLoans and at Amortised Through for-Sale Receivables Cost Profit and Loss Total Notes m m m m m As at 29 November 2015 Financial Assets as per the Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 45.8 45.8 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 3.8 50.1 50.1 Financial assets 3.3 2.8 2.8 Total 2.8 95.9 98.7 Financial Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet Trade payables 3.10 63.6 63.6 Accruals and other payables 3.10 74.8 74.8 Borrowings 4.2 9.3 9.3 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 163.5 163.5 Derivative liabilities 4.6 0.7 0.7 Total 311.2 0.7 311.9 4.8 Financial Risk Management Overview The Groups financial instruments comprise trade receivables and payables, borrowings and finance leases, cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the risk of default by counterparties following financial transactions, the availability of funds for the Group to meet its obligations as they fall due and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Credit Risk The Groups exposures to credit risk arise from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and derivative assets.
The carrying value of these financial assets, as set out in Note 4.7, represents the maximum credit exposure.
No collateral is held as security against these assets.
Cash and Cash Equivalents The Groups exposure to credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is managed by investing in banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings and by regular review of counterparty risk.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables at the period end comprise mainly monies due from suppliers, which are considered of a good credit quality, as well as VAT receivables.
The Group provides for doubtful receivables in respect of monies due from suppliers.
The Group has very low retail credit risk due to transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has effective controls over this area.
The Group has allowed for doubtful receivables in respect of consumer sales by reviewing the ageing profile and, based on prior experience, assessing the recoverability of overdue balances.
Movements in the allowance for the impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Notes m m At the beginning of the period 3.0 0.5 Provision for impairment of receivables 0.9 2.5 Uncollectable amounts written off 1.6 0.5 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.6 0.5 At the end of the period 3.8 1.7 3.0 The Group has adequate cash resources to manage the short-term working capital needs of the business.
In the prior year a 3-year 100 million revolving facility was entered into with Barclays, HSBC, RBS and Santander.
In the current year the facility was extended by a further two years and the amount of the facility was increased to 210 million.
As at 29 November 2015 the facility remained unutilised.
The Group regularly reviews its financing arrangements.
For further details of the review please refer to the Groups Viability Statement on page 39.
com Our Financials 4.8 Financial Risk Management continued The Group monitors its liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs.
For further details see Note 4.11.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date at the Balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the carrying values and undiscounted contractual cash flows.
Carrying Contractual 1 Year 1-2 2-5 More Than Value Cash Flows or Less Years Years 5 Years Notes m m m m m m Financial Liabilities Trade payables 3.10 61.3 61.3 61.3 Accruals 3.10 46.6 46.6 46.6 Borrowings 4.2 6.7 6.9 4.5 1.9 0.5 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 169.0 205.6 34.9 29.3 70.4 71.0 Derivative liabilities 4.6 0.2 0.2 0.2 30 November 2014 283.8 320.6 147.5 31.2 70.9 71.0 Carrying Contractual 1 Year 1-2 2-5 More Than Value Cash Flows or Less Years Years 5 Years Notes m m m m m m Financial Liabilities Trade payables 3.10 63.6 63.6 63.6 Accruals and other payables 3.10 74.8 74.8 74.8 Borrowings 4.2 9.3 9.7 1.8 1.7 6.2 Obligations under finance leases 4.3 163.5 195.4 34.8 30.3 75.0 55.3 Derivative liabilities 4.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 29 November 2015 311.9 344.2 175.7 32.0 81.2 55.3 Market Risk Currency Risk The Group has foreign currency exposure in relation to its foreign currency trade payables and a portion of its cash and cash equivalents.
Foreign currency trade payables arise principally on purchases of plant and equipment, primarily in relation to the Euro, Polish Zloty and US Dollar.
Bank accounts are maintained in these foreign currencies in order to minimise the Groups exposure to fluctuations in the currency relating to current and future purchases of plant and equipment.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is based on the following amounts: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents - EUR 0.4 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents - PLN 0.4 0.3 Trade payables at period end - EUR 0.2 0.4 Trade payables at period end - PLN 0.1 Trade payables at period end - USD 0.2 0.1 Derivative liability asset forward foreign exchange contracts - EUR 0.2 0.3 0.3 The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on its financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Increase Increase Increase Increase decrease decrease decrease decrease in Income in Equity in Income in Equity m m m m 10% appreciation of the above foreign currencies 0.1 0.1 0.3 10% depreciation of the above foreign currencies 0.1 0.1 0.3 159 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.8 Financial Risk Management continued A movement of the euro, as indicated, against sterling at 29 November 2015 would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts detailed above.
This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Group considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the period.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its floating rate interest bearing borrowings and floating rate cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups interest rate risk policy seeks to minimise finance charges and volatility by structuring the interest rate profile into a diversified portfolio of fixed rate and floating rate financial assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk on floating rate interest bearing borrowings is not significant.
At the balance sheet date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial instruments was: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Fixed Rate Instruments Financial assets 41.6 50.8 Financial liabilities 163.4 169.0 Variable Rate Instruments Financial assets 4.2 25.5 Financial liabilities 9.2 6.7 Sensitivity Analysis An increase of 100 basis points 1.0% in interest rates would increase equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
A rate of 100 basis points was assessed as being appropriate, considering the current short-term interest rate outlook.
The calculation applies the increase to average floating rate interest bearing borrowings and cash and cash equivalents existing during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant and considers the effect on financial instruments with variable interest rates.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Equity Gain Income Gain 0.1 4.9 Share Capital and Reserves Accounting Policy Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share Capital and Reserves As at 29 November 2015, the number of ordinary shares available for issue under the Block Listing Facilities was 14,620,308 2014: 19,094,500.
These ordinary shares will only be issued and allotted when the shares under the relevant share incentive plan have been awarded or the share options under the Groups executive share ownership scheme and non-employee share options and Sharesave schemes have been exercised.
They are therefore not included in the total number of ordinary shares outstanding below.
The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below: Ordinary Shares Number of Ordinary Share Shares Shares Premium million m m At 1 December 2013 617.7 12.4 251.5 Issues of ordinary shares 0.5 0.1 Allotted in respect of Joint Share Ownership Scheme 0.2 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 2.7 0.1 3.3 At 30 November 2014 620.9 12.5 255.1 Issues of ordinary shares 0.6 0.5 Reacquisition of interest in treasury shares 0.8 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 3.9 0.1 3.9 At 29 November 2015 625.4 12.6 258.7 160 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 4.9 Share Capital and Reserves continued Included in the total number of ordinary shares outstanding above are 34,770,981 2014: 34,810,561 ordinary shares held by the Groups employee benefit trust see Note 4.10 b.
The ordinary shares held by the trustee of the Groups employee benefit trust pursuant to the Joint Share Ownership scheme are treated as treasury shares in the Consolidated balance sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
These ordinary shares have voting rights but these have been waived by the trustee although the trustee may vote in respect of shares that have vested and remain in the trust.
The number of allotted, called up and fully paid shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of each period differs from that used in the basic profit per share calculation in Note 2.9 as basic profit per share is calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding treasury shares.
The movements in reserves other than share premium are set out below: Treasury Reverse Shares Acquisition Fair Value Reserve Reserve Reserve Notes m m m At 1 December 2013 52.4 116.2 0.1 Movement on derivative financial instrument 4.9 b 0.2 Disposal of treasury shares 4.9 a 0.6 At 30 November 2014 51.8 116.2 0.3 Movement on derivative financial instrument 4.9 b 0.5 Disposal of treasury shares 4.9 a 0.1 Reacquisition of interests in treasury shares 4.9 a 0.8 At 29 November 2015 50.9 116.2 0.8 a Treasury Shares Reserve This reserve arose when the Group issued equity share capital under its JSOS, which is held in trust by the trustee of the Groups employee benefit trust.
Treasury shares cease to be accounted for as such when they are sold outside the Group or the interest is transferred in full to the participant pursuant to the terms of the JSOS.
Participant interests in unexercised shares held by participants are not included in the calculation of treasury shares: unvested interests of leavers which have been reacquired by the Groups employee benefit trust during the period are not accounted for as treasury shares.
See Note 4.10 b for more information on the JSOS.
b Other Reserves The fair value reserve comprises gains and losses on movements in the Groups cash flow hedges, which consist of commodity swaps and foreign currency hedges.
The acquisition by the Company of the entire issued share capital in 2010 of Ocado Limited was accounted for as a reverse acquisition under IFRS 3 revised.
Consequently the previously recognised book values and assets and liabilities have been retained and the consolidated financial information for the period to 29 November 2015 has been presented as if the Company had always been the parent company of the Group.
161 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments Accounting Policies Employee Benefits Employees including Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby, depending on the scheme, employees render services in exchange for rights over shares equity-settled transactions or entitlement to a future cash payment cash-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured, where appropriate, with reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Where options need to be valued an appropriate valuation model is applied.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured with reference to the fair value of the liability, which is taken to be the closing price of the Companys shares.
Until the liability is settled it is remeasured at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement, with any changes in the fair value being recognised in the Income statement for the period.
For more details please refer to Note 3.11 Provisions Employee incentive schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, along with a corresponding increase in equity, over the years in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is recognised, along with a corresponding provision for the expected cash settlement, over the vesting period.
At each reporting date, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of management, will ultimately vest.
Managements estimates are based on the best available information at that date.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The Group has exposure in respect of cash-settled share-based payment transactions and share-based payment transactions with cash alternatives as defined by IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment in respect of bad leaver provisions in the Groups JSOS and the Cash LTIP see Note 3.11 Provisions.
National insurance contribution NIC obligations arising from cash-settled schemes and HMRC unapproved equity-settled schemes are treated as if they are cash settled, regardless of the actual cash equity determination of the scheme itself.
Share Options and Other Equity Instruments The Group operates various employee share incentive schemes, namely the Executive Share Ownership Scheme the ESOS, the Joint Share Ownership Scheme the JSOS, the Sharesave Scheme, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Growth Incentive Plan GIP and the share incentive plan SIP.
The Group also operates a cash-settled incentive scheme, the Cash LTIP.
The total expense for the period relating to employee share-based payment plans was 9.8 million 2014: 6.0 million, of which 7.7 million 2014: 4.4 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions and 2.1 million 2014: 1.6 million as a provision for the payment of employers NIC upon allotment of HMRC unapproved equity-settled share schemes and for the Cash LTIP see Note 3.11 Provisions for further details.
a ESOS The Groups ESOS is an equity-settled share option scheme approved by HMRC.
Options have also be granted under the terms of HMRCs schedule, which is not approved.
The ESOS was established by Ocado in 2001.
Under the ESOS, Ocado or the trustees of an employee trust may grant options over shares in the Company to eligible employees.
The eligible employees to whom options are granted and the terms of such options will be determined by the Directors of Ocado or the trustees.
The employees who are eligible to participate in the ESOS are all Ocados Executive Directors and employees, including the employees of the Companys subsidiaries.
The exercise price of options may not be less than the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant.
If the trustees or the Directors have determined that the exercise of an option will be satisfied by the issue of ordinary shares, the exercise price may also not be less than the nominal value of ordinary shares.
The Directors of Ocado or the trustees may impose a performance target and any further condition determined to be appropriate on the exercise of an option.
In most cases any performance target must be measured over a period of at least three years.
There are currently no options granted which are subject to performance targets that have not yet been met.
The vesting period for the ESOS is three years.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant or the employee leaves the Group, the options expire subject to a limited number of exceptions.
Prior to the Admission, the market value of the Companys shares was derived based on the market value of similar companies and by taking into account transactions with shareholders during the relevant period.
The Share Valuation Office of HMRC has confirmed in correspondence that in respect of options granted prior to Admission, the exercise price was not less than the market value of the Companys shares at each option grant date.
For exercises during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 3.89 2014: 4.64.
In determining the fair value of the share options granted during the period, the BlackScholes Option Pricing Model was used with the following inputs: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Weighted average share price 3.88 4.75 Weighted average exercise price 3.88 4.75 Expected volatility 0.40 0.40 Weighted expected life years 3.00 3.00 Weighted average risk-free interest rate 0.8% 1.2% Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% Given the immaturity of the Companys share history, the expected volatility was determined by considering the historic performance of the shares of a basket of companies similar to and including the Company.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
All share awards under the ESOS are equity-settled, apart from employers NIC due on unapproved ESOS awards which is treated as cash-settled.
It is a share ownership scheme under which the Participants and Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, the Employee Benefit Trust Trustee, held at the Balance sheet date separate beneficial interests in 34,770,981 2014: 34,810,561 ordinary shares which represents 5.6% 2014: 5.6% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Of these ordinary shares, 1,994,071 2014: 1,453,254 are held by the Employee Benefit Trust on an unallocated basis.
Nature of Interests Interests take the form of a restricted interest in ordinary shares in the Company the Interest.
An Interest permits a Participant to benefit from the increase if any in the value of a number of ordinary shares in the Company Shares over specified threshold amounts.
In order to acquire an Interest, a Participant must enter into a joint share ownership agreement with the Employee Benefit Trust Trustee, under which the Participant and the Employee Benefit Trust Trustee jointly acquire the Shares and agree that once all vesting conditions have been satisfied the participant is awarded a specific number of Shares equivalent to the benefit achieved, or at their discretion, when the Shares are sold, the Participant has a right to receive a proportion of the sale proceeds insofar as the value of the Shares exceeds the threshold amount.
Participants In prior periods Interests were acquired by the Participants under the first JSOS scheme JSOS1 in 32,476,700 Shares at an issue price of 1.50 per share, and the second group of Participants JSOS scheme JSOS2 in 3,990,799 Shares at an issue price of 1.70 per share.
In prior periods, 2,953,675 Shares in which interests of Participants have lapsed were reallocated to the third group of Participants under the JSOS scheme JSOS3.
For JSOS1 and JSOS2 there are four tranches, each with their own hurdle price.
For JSOS3 there are two tranches, each with their own hurdle price.
JSOS1 JSOS2 JSOS3 % % % Vesting Hurdle of issue Vesting Hurdle of Issue Vesting Hurdle of Market Tranche Date Value Price Tranche Date Value Price Tranche Date Value Price 1 2011 Jan11 1.73 115% 1 2012 Jun12 1.96 115% 1 2013 Jan13 1.70 230% 265% 2 2012 Jan12 1.91 127% 2 2013 Jun13 2.15 127% 2 2014 Jan14 1.80 244% 280% 3 2013 Jan13 2.08 139% 3 2014 Jun14 2.36 139% 4 2014 Jan14 2.28 152% 4 2015 Jun15 2.59 152% 165 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments continued For JSOS1, Participants were required to purchase their Interest for 2.0% of the issue price.
For JSOS2, the price was in a range of 7.1% to 10.8%, and for JSOS3, the price was in a range of 1.47% to 1.70% of the share price at date of issue.
When an Interest vests, the Employee Benefit Trust Trustee will transfer Shares to the Participant of equal value to the Participants Interest or the Shares will be sold and the Employee Benefit Trust Trustee will account to the Participant for the balance, i. e. the difference between the sale proceeds less expenses and the hurdle price.
Vesting Conditions The vesting of the Interests granted to Participants is subject to a time vesting condition, as detailed above.
The fair value of the Interests awarded under the JSOS was determined using the BlackScholes Option Pricing Model.
As per IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, market-based vesting conditions and the share price target conditions in the JSOS have been taken into account in establishing the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
Other non-market or performance-related conditions were not taken into account in establishing the fair value of equity instruments granted: instead, these non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction amount so that ultimately the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted is based on the number of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
In determining the fair value of the Interests granted, the BlackScholes Option Pricing Model was used with the following inputs: JSOS1 Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Tranche 4 Weighted average share price 1.35 1.35 1.35 1.35 Weighted average exercise price 1.73 1.91 2.08 2.28 Expected volatility 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 Weighted expected life years 0.91 1.91 2.91 3.91 Risk-free interest rate 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% JSOS2 Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Tranche 4 Weighted average share price 1.70 1.70 1.70 1.70 Weighted average exercise price 1.96 2.15 2.36 2.59 Expected volatility 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 Weighted expected life years 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 Risk-free interest rate 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Expected volatility was determined by comparing the Company to a basket of others of a similar size or which operate in a similar industry.
As the Interests in JSOS3 were reallocated from lapsed Interests in JSOS1 and JSOS2, the fair value of those Interests had been calculated in prior periods using the inputs disclosed in the tables above.
Details of the movement in the number of Interests in Shares during each period are as follows: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Weighted Weighted Number of Average Number of Average Interests in Exercise Price Interests in Exercise Price Shares Shares Outstanding at the beginning of the period 33,357,307 2.00 33,795,922 1.99 Granted during the period Forfeited during the period 540,817 2.29 Exercised during the period 39,580 2.32 438,615 2.02 Outstanding at the end of the period 32,776,910 1.99 33,357,307 2.00 Exercisable at the end of the period 32,776,910 1.99 33,503,642 1.98 166 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments continued c Non-Employee Share Options Options to subscribe for ordinary shares and convertible preference shares have been granted by Ocado Limited to non-employees.
These options are equitysettled, and do not have any vesting criteria.
As a result of the Groups restructuring, these options are now held over ordinary shares in Ocado Group plc.
At each respective balance sheet date the outstanding options were as follows: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Number of Exercise Price Number of Exercise Price Share Options Share Options Exercise Period Jan 04 435,300 1.03 435,300 1.03 03 01 04 03 01 18 Outstanding at the end of the period 435,300 435,300 Details of the movement in the number of non-employee share options outstanding during each period are as follows: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Weighted Weighted Average Average Number of Exercise Number of Exercise Share Options Price Share Options Price Outstanding at the beginning of the period 435,300 1.03 1,322,000 0.95 Granted during the period Forfeited during the period Exercised during the period 886,700 0.90 Outstanding at the end of the period 435,300 1.03 435,300 1.03 Exercisable at the end of the period 435,300 1.03 435,300 1.03 The weighted average remaining contractual lives for outstanding non-employee share options are as follows: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Weighted Weighted Average Average Remaining Remaining Exercise Price Number of Contractual Life Exercise Price Number of Contractual Life Share Options years Share Options years 1.03 435,300 2.1 1.03 435,300 3.1 Outstanding at the end of the period 435,300 435,300 d Sharesave Scheme In 2010 the Group launched the Ocado Group Sharesave Scheme SAYE.
This is an HMRC approved scheme and is open to any person that was an employee or officer of the Group at the launch date.
Under the scheme, members save a fixed amount each month for three years.
At the end of the three year period they are entitled to use these savings to buy shares in the Company at a price which is determined at launch date: 90% of the market value in the case of the Groups Sharesave Schemes SAYE2, SAYE3 and SAYE4.
At 29 November 2015 employees of the Companys subsidiaries held 2,273 2014: 1,528 contracts in respect of options over 3,549,479 2014: 3,789,044 shares.
Details of the movement in the number of Sharesave options outstanding during each period are as follows: 29 November 2015 30 November 2014 Weighted Weighted Average Average Number of Exercise Number of Exercise Share Options Price Share Options Price Outstanding at the beginning of the period 3,789,044 1.67 5,031,578 1.61 Granted during the period 2,621,201 3.24 Forfeited during in the period 458,162 3.02 286,625 2.37 Exercised during the period 2,402,604 0.91 955,909 1.16 Outstanding at the end of the period 3,549,479 3.16 3,789,044 1.67 Exercisable at the end of the period 18,607 2.82 22,347 1.39 167 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments continued e Long Term Incentive Plan In 2013, the Group introduced an equity-settled long term incentive plan LTIP as approved by the Remuneration Committee and shareholders, under which shares are conditionally awarded to Executive Directors and select members of senior management.
The number of awards issued are calculated based on a percentage of the participants salaries and will vest at the end of a period of three years from the grant date.
The final number and proportion of awards expected to vest will depend on achievement of certain performance conditions.
For the 2013 LTIP, the single performance condition is the Groups earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items EBIT for the financial year ending November 2015 and for the 2014 LTIP, the performance conditions are the Groups revenue and profit loss per share for the financial year ending November 2016.
For the 2015 LTIP, there are four equally weighted performance conditions, which are operational efficiency and capital efficiency metrics related to the retails business and the platform business, the Groups retail business revenue and Groups retail business profit per share for the financial year ending December 2017.
The number of awards issued, adjusted to reflect the achievement of the performance conditions, will then vest during 2016 for the 2013 LTIP, 2017 for the 2014 LTIP and 2018 for the 2015 LTIP.
Full vesting will only therefore occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
An award will lapse if a participant ceases to be employed within the Group before the vesting date.
A summary of the status of this LTIP as at 29 November 2015 and changes during the year is presented below: Number of Number of Share Awards Share A wards 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5,087,848 4,948,576 Granted during the period 988,773 672,808 Forfeited during the period 533,536 Outstanding at the End of the Period 6,076,621 5,087,848 There were no awards exercisable as at 29 November 2015 nor at 30 November 2014.
The Group recognised an expense of 6.1 million 2014: 3.8 million related to these awards in the Consolidated income statement during the year.
The expectation of meeting the performance criteria, based upon internal budgets and forecasts, was taken into account when calculating this expense.
f Chairmans Share Matching Award In 2013, the Group introduced the equity-settled Chairmans Share Matching Award, under which a one-off award of restricted shares were awarded to the Chairman, Lord Rose, on assuming the role of Chairman.
The award condition is based on a personal investment of a minimum of 400,000 shares and continued membership of the Board.
This will vest three years from when the award was approved by the Remuneration Committee.
There is no performance criteria to which vesting is subject.
These shares are restricted from being sold while he is on the Board and the shares are not allowed to be sold until the first anniversary of his ceasing to be a member of the Board.
A summary of the status of this Chairmans Share Matching Award as at 29 November 2015 and changes during the year is presented below: Number of Number of Share Awards Share Awards 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Outstanding at the beginning of the period 452,284 452,284 Granted during the period Outstanding at the end of the period 452,284 452,284 The Group recognised an expense of 0.4 million 2014: 0.4 million related to this award in the Consolidated income statement during the year.
g Growth Incentive Plan During the prior period, the Group introduced an equity settled growth incentive plan GIP, under which nil cost shares were conditionally awarded to certain Executive Directors.
The final number and proportion of awards expected to vest will depend on achievement of a performance condition, being the growth in the Companys share price relative to the growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index over a five-year performance period.
These awards will vest in 2019.
Performance will be assessed based on the three-month average share price of the Company and the FTSE 100 Share Index at the end of the performance period in comparison to the three-month average share price of the Company and the FTSE 100 Share Index prior to the start of the performance period.
com Our Financials 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments continued In determining the fair value of the awards granted, a unique Monte Carlo model was used with the following inputs: Weighted average share price 3.19 Value of FTSE 100 index 6,389.25 Expected correlation 29% Expected volatility of Company 40% Expected volatility of FTSE 100 index 16% Weighted expected life - years 5.0 Risk-free rate 1.96% Expected dividend yield 0% Valuation model Monte Carlo Pricing Expected correlation was determined with reference to the historic share price correlation of the shares in the Company and the FTSE 100 Index over a period commensurate with the terms of the award i. e. five years.
Expected volatility of the Company was determined by comparing the Company to others of a similar size or which operate in a similar industry.
Expected volatility of the FTSE 100 Index was determined by reference to its historic volatility over a period commensurate with the terms of the award i. e. five years.
Volatility is a key estimate in determining the fair value of the GIP award, as the overall charge is most sensitive to changes in this assumption.
Management have had regard to an appropriate range of alternative volatility assumptions, and concluded that a change in the volatility within this range would not have a material impact on the financial statements.
The use of the Monte Carlo model and calculation of the associated input parameters requires judgement.
Therefore management obtained professional advice to assist in determining the fair value of the awards granted.
A summary of the GIP as at 29 November 2015 and changes during the year is presented below: Number of Share Awards Outstanding at 1 December 2013 Granted during the year 6,000,000 Outstanding at 30 November 2014 6,000,000 Granted during the year Outstanding at 29 November 2015 6,000,000 There were no awards exercisable as at 29 November 2015 30 November 2014: None.
The Group recognised an expense of 1.3 million 2014: 0.9 million related to these awards in the Consolidated income statement during the year.
The expectation of meeting the performance criteria was taken into account when calculating this expense.
h Share Incentive Plan During the prior year, the Group introduced the Ocado Share Incentive Plan SIP.
This HMRC approved scheme provides all employees, including Executive Directors, the opportunity to receive and invest in Company shares.
All SIP shares are held in a SIP Trust, administered by Yorkshire Building Society.
There are two elements in the plan - the Buy As You Earn BAYE arrangement and the Free Share Award.
Under the BAYE, participants can purchase shares in the Company Partnership Shares each month using contributions from pre-tax pay, subject to an upper limit.
For every seven shares purchased, the Company gifts the participant one free share Matching Shares.
Under the Free Shares Award shares are given to eligible employees, as a proportion of the annual base pay, subject to a maximum.
Eligible employees are those with six months service as at the grant date.
For Partnership Shares, eligible employees are those with three months service.
Partnership shares can be withdrawn from the Plan Trust at any time: however, Matching Shares and Free Shares are subject to a three-year holding period, during which continuous employment within the Group is required.
The Matching Shares will be forfeited if any corresponding Partnership Shares are removed from the Plan Trust within this three-year period, or if the participant leaves Ocado.
169 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.10 Share Options and Other Equity Instruments continued A summary of the status of the SIP as at 29 November 2015 and changes during the year is presented below: Number of Partnership Matching Free Share Awards Shares Shares Shares Total Outstanding at 1 December 2013 Awarded during the period 53,410 7,283 400,258 460,951 Forfeited during the period 94 17,115 17,209 Released during the period 696 54 750 Outstanding at 30 November 2014 52,714 7,189 383,089 442,992 Unrestricted at 30 November 2014 52,714 52,714 Number of Partnership Matching Free Share Awards Shares Shares Shares Total Outstanding at 30 November 2014 52,714 7,189 383,089 442,992 Awarded during the period 139,790 19,968 452,018 611,776 Forfeited during the period 2,661 88,642 91,303 Released during the period 19,346 46 2,459 21,851 Outstanding at 29 November 2015 173,158 24,450 744,006 941,614 Unrestricted at 29 November 2015 173,158 654 173,812 In the year, the Group recognised an expense of 0.3 million 2014: 0.1 million related to these awards.
The expectation of meeting the holding period was taken into account when calculating this expense.
4.11 Capital Management The Boards objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of debt and equity financing to enable the Group to continue as a going concern, to sustain future development of the business and to maximise returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders.
The Board closely manages trading capital, defined as net assets plus net debt.
Net debt is calculated as total debt obligations under finance leases and borrowings as shown in the Balance sheet, less cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups net assets at the end of the period were 241.9 million 2014: 218.2 million and it had net debt of 127.0 million 2014: 99.4 million.
The main areas of capital management revolve around working capital management and compliance with externally imposed financial covenants.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and balance the needs of the Group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank covenants.
The components of working capital management include monitoring inventory turn, age of inventory, age of receivables, receivables days, payables days, balance sheet reforecasting, period projected profit loss, weekly cash flow forecasts and daily cash balances.
Major investment decisions are based on reviewing the expected future cash flows and all major capital expenditure requires approval by the Board.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the period.
In the prior period, the Group entered into a new unsecured three-year Revolving Credit Facility RCF with Barclays, HSBC, RBS and Santander.
During the current period the facility was extended by a further two years, the amount was increased from 100 million to 210 million and certain covenants were loosened.
Throughout the period, the Group has complied with all covenants imposed by lenders.
In addition, a key aspect of capital management was the strategic operating agreement with Morrisons and the operation of MHE JVCo, a Company jointly owned with Morrisons, discussed in Note 5.4.
Given the Groups commitment to expand the business and the investment required to complete CFC3 and future CFCs, the declaration and payment of a dividend is not part of the short-term capital management strategy of the Group.
com Our Financials 4.11 Capital Management continued At the Balance sheet date, the Groups undrawn facilities and cash and cash equivalents were as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 Notes m m Total facilities available 409.6 288.7 Facilities drawn down 4.2 172.8 175.7 Undrawn facilities at end of period 236.8 113.0 Cash and cash equivalents gross of drawn overdraft facility 3.9 45.8 76.3 282.6 189.3 In the prior period, there were 1.1 million of capitalised transaction costs relating to the 100 million revolving credit facility entered into with Barclays, HSBC, RBS and Santander.
In the current period transaction costs of 2.5 million relating to the facility amendment are capitalised.
171 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section 5 Other notes 5.1 Subsidiaries The subsidiary undertakings and significant undertakings of the Company as at period end are set out below.
A schedule of interests in all undertakings is filed with the annual return.
Proportion of Share Capital Held Country of Name Principal Activity direct indirect Incorporation Ocado Holdings Limited Holding company 100% England and Wales Ocado Retail Limited formerly Ocado Limited Retail 100% England and Wales Ocado Information Technology Limited Intellectual property 100% Republic of Ireland Ocado Polska Sp.
Technology 100% Poland Ocado Innovation Limited formerly Ocado Technology Limited Technology 100% England and Wales Ocado Operating Limited Logistics and Distribution 100% England and Wales Ocado Central Services Limited Business Services 100% England and Wales Ocado Innovation Holdings Limited Non-trading company 100% England and Wales Jalapeno Partners Limited Non-trading company 100% England and Wales Last Mile Technology Limited Non-trading company 100% England and Wales Speciality Stores Limited formerly Specialty Stores Limited Trading company 100% England and Wales Marie Claire Beauty Limited formerly Newco Beauty Limited Retail 100% England and Wales Paws & Purrs Limited Retail 100% England and Wales MHE JVCo Limited Trading company 50% England and Wales Paneltex Limited Manufacturing 25% England and Wales In accordance with Section 410 2 a of the Companies Act, a full list of the then subsidiaries was annexed to the 2014 annual return and submitted to Companies House.
In accordance with the exemption under Section 479A of the Companies Act the standalone financial statements for a subsidiary, Paws & Purrs Limited, are not to be audited for the year ended 29 November 2015, but are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period.
The Group has effective control over the financial and operating activities of the Ocado Cell in Atlas Insurance PCC Limited, an insurance company incorporated in Malta and therefore consolidates the Ocado Cell in its financial statements in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group uses the Ocado Cell to provide self-insurance for its vehicle fleet and public and product liability claims.
5.2 Commitments Capital Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure but not provided for in the financial statements are as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Land and buildings 3.4 2.9 Property, plant and equipment 18.9 20.0 Total capital expenditure committed at the end of the period 22.3 22.9 Of the total capital expenditure committed at the current period end, 14.4 million relates to new CFCs, 1.5 million to existing CFCs, 1.5 million to fleet costs and 1.2 million relates to technology related projects.
Operating Lease Commitments The Group leases a number of offices, facilities and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
At 29 November 2015 the ageing profile of future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Due within one year 14.2 12.0 Due after one year but less than five 44.8 34.6 Due after five years 136.7 123.7 Total commitment 195.7 170.3 172 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Our Financials 5.3 Contingent Liabilities The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business, all of which the Group expects will be either covered by its insurances or will not be material in the context of the Groups financial position.
5.4 Related Party Transactions Key Management Personnel Only the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are recognised as being key management personnel.
It is the Board which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key management compensation is as follows: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 3.2 3.0 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits in respect of Directors retired during the year 0.2 Share-based payments 5.6 3.7 8.8 6.9 Further information on the remuneration of Directors and Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 117.
Other related party transactions with key management personnel made during the period related to the purchase of professional services and amounted to 6,000 2014: 15,000.
All transactions were on an arms length basis and no period end balances arose as a result of these transactions.
At the end of the period, there were no amounts owed by key management personnel to the Group 2014: None.
There were no other material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close family.
Investment The following transactions were carried out with Paneltex Limited, a company incorporated in the UK in which the Group holds a 25% interest.
Further information on the Groups relationship with Paneltex Limited is provided in Note 3.3.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Purchase of goods Plant and machinery 0.1 Consumables 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.4 Indirect transactions, consisting of the purchase of plant and machinery through some of the Groups finance lease counterparties, were carried out with Paneltex Limited to the value of 12.2million 2014: 7.2 million.
At period end, the Group owed Paneltex 31,000 2014: 19,000.
173 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.4 Related Party Transactions continued Joint Venture The following transactions were carried out with MHE JV Co, a joint venture company, incorporated in the UK, in which the Group holds a 50% interest: 29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Capital contributions made to MHE JVCo 6.5 Dividend received from MHE JVCo 8.1 Reimbursement of supplier invoices paid on behalf of MHE JVCo 6.1 34.9 Lease of assets from MHE JVCo 3.0 31.0 Capital element of finance lease instalments paid to MHE JVCo 14.3 15.7 Interest element of finance lease instalments accrued or paid to MHE JVCo 6.2 5.4 During the period the Group paid lease instalments including interest of 20.5 million 2014: 21.1 million to MHE JVCo.
Of the 20.5 million, 10.6 million 2014: 8.9 million was recovered directly from Morrisons in the form of Other Income and a further 8.1 million 2014: nil was received from MHE JVCo by way of a dividend.
The remaining 1.8 million 2014: 12.2 million represents capital expenditure requirements of MHE JVCo for which no additional funding was required from Ocado.
The net result is the termination of 14.3 million of MHE JVCo debt during the period 2014: 15.7 million with no corresponding net cash outflow.
In the current period, the Group made no capital contributions to MHE JVCo 2014: 6.5 million.
Included within trade and other receivables is a balance of 5.6 million owed by MHE JVCo 2014: 3.5 million.
1.0 million of this relates to a finance lease accrual which is included within other receivables 2014: 2.7 million.
4.6 million 2014: 0.8 million relates to capital recharges.
Included within trade and other payables is a balance of 1.0 million owed to MHE JVCo 2014: 0.8 million.
Included within obligations under finance leases is a balance of 119.5 million owed to MHE JVCo 2014: 130.8 million.
No other transactions that require disclosure under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures have occurred during the current financial period.
5.5 Post Balance Sheet Events There have been no significant events, outside the ordinary course of business, affecting the Group since 29 November 2015.
com Our Financials Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Report on the company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Ocado Group plcs company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 29 November 2015 and of its cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Company Balance Sheet as at 29 November 2015: the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the period then ended: the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
175 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Ocado Group plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 78 and 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Ocado Group plc for the 52 week period ended 29 November 2015.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 2 February 2016 176 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Ocado Annual Report 2015 Back.
