Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 3.
Our Retail Operating Model The Conventional Way Conventional store in-store or online Suppliers & Wholesalers Regional Distribution Centres Stores The Ocado Way Delivery Online only by retailer or customer Customers Home Suppliers & Wholesalers Central Fulfilment Centres Delivery Customers Home Our Process Features Ordering Fulfilment Processing Delivery Pure-play focus on easy to navigate web Simplified inbound logistics Unique hub and spoke delivery solution interfaces and mobile apps Large centralised fulfilment centres Market leading route optimisation and driver Ease of use, convenience and speed software Entire process optimised through use of our Complex algorithms to personalise and proprietary equipment and software solutions enhance the shopping experience 08 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Our Approach The Benefits of Our Model We sell groceries and other everyday and specialist products to consumers placing orders For Our Customers For Our Business through our easy to use and convenient interfaces.
We have developed and operate an entirely Removes costs of separate distribution Convenience and ease of ordering online, unique end-to-end solution for bringing groceries centres as we receive stock from suppliers saving time and effort with best in class, from our suppliers directly to our customers and wholesalers directly at our CFCs personalised interfaces kitchens.
Automated put away process Leading customer service with high on-time We run large warehouse operations, our significantly reduces operating costs delivery in self-selected one-hour time slots customer fulfilment centres CFCs, where all Cost intensive check-out process removed stock is received and held, and all customer High order accuracy with minimal product as we have no physical stores orders are picked.
Our operating model is built substitutions on technology and logistics skills rather than Significantly lower property and Wider choice of products with greater store-based real estate.
We have automated many occupation costs availability of the tasks that are performed manually in storeSignificantly lower product waste due to based retailing to significantly reduce operating Fresher products as the supply chain faster stock turn, fewer touch points and costs in our business.
from suppliers is generally shorter we optimised stock rotation leading to cost guarantee the life of our fresh products Through the application of proprietary savings technology, software and algorithms, we optimise Cost savings we generate as a result of our our end-to-end operations.
This starts with the model are invested in competitive prices front-end user interfaces, through the entire warehouse operations, to our sophisticated routing software applied to optimise our delivery routes.
By combining these elements of scale, automation and technology, we are able to eliminate or Read about Our Business Model View our Ocado Explained video significantly lower many of the costs incurred in and Partners on pages 12 and 13 online at www.
com traditional grocery retail operations.
CFC Sites 1 Where We Operate 1.
CFC 1 Hatfield 2 Our Locations and Coverage 3 2.
CFC 3 Andover opening 2016 Our current delivery area covers over 70% of 4.
CFC 4 Erith opening 2017 the UK population.
We fulfil orders from our 5.
NFDC Welwyn Garden City centralised CFCs in Hatfield, Hertfordshire and 2 Spoke Sites Dordon, Warwickshire and will soon open our 15 third CFC in Andover, Hampshire.
Knowsley CFCs we deliver directly around a third of 5 3.
Manchester 1 orders to local catchment customers, while the 5 4.
Sheffield 12 remaining two thirds of orders are trunked 11 5.
Oxford 16 14 10 to spoke sites from which local delivery takes 6.
Wimbledon 7 Read about our Proprietary 10.
Park Royal Equipment Solution and Andover 11.
West Drayton Non-food distribution centre 09 slugline
