Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Shareholder information Registered and other offices 2016 Financial calendar The Companys registered office and head office is: Annual General Meeting 10 May 2016 Half year results announcement 15 September 2016 Level 4 Full year results announcement 9 March 2017 123 Victoria Street London SW1E 6DE Trading market and shareholder profiles Telephone: 44 0 20 7811 2400 Ophir Energy plcs shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange Fax: 44 0 20 7811 2421 with ticker OPHR.
The Companys SEDOL number is B24CT19 and Website: www.
Other offices are located in: Unsolicited mail Jakarta The Company is required by law to make its share register available 15th floor, Indonesian Stock Exchange Building on request to unconnected organisations.
As a consequence, #15-02 Tower II shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including mail from Jl Jenderal Sudirman Kav 52-53 unauthorised investment firms.
If you wish to limit the amount Jakarta 12190 of unsolicited mail received, please contact the Mailing Preference Indonesia Service, an independent organisation whose services are free Telephone: 62 21 5291 2900 forconsumers.
Fax: 62 21 3000 4020 Further details can be obtained from: Bangkok Mailing Preference Service 28th Floor, Unit 2802 MPS Freepost LON 20771 Q House Lumpini Building London W1E 0ZT 1 South Sathorn Road Website: www.
uk Tungmahamek Sathorn District Investment fraud warning Bangkok 10120 Shareholders are increasingly receiving unsolicited phone calls Thailand regarding different investment matters which have implied a Telephone: 66 2620 0800 connection with Ophir.
These calls are typically from people claiming Fax: 66 2620 0820 to be brokers, offering shares in US or UK investment schemes.
We also have smaller offices in Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, As part of their ongoing campaign to raise awareness the Financial Kenya, Malaysia, Myanmar and Tanzania Conduct Authority FCA have recently launched Be ScamSmart http: scamsmart.
uk which is specifically targeted at the Registrars tell-tale signs of a scam.
The Company has appointed Equiniti Limited to maintain its register Further information on share fraud and unauthorised investment of members.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti using the details firms targeting UK investors boiler room scams may be below in relation to all general enquiries concerning their shareholding: obtainedfrom the website of the Financial Conduct Authority: Equiniti Limited www.
Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0371 384 2030 International callers: 44 121 415 7047 E quiniti Limited and Equiniti Financial Services Limited are part of the Equiniti group of companies.
Company share registration, employee scheme and pension administration services are provided through Equiniti Limited, which is registered in England & Wales with No.
Investment and general insurance services are provided through Equiniti Financial Services Limited, which is registered in England & Wales with No.
6208699 and is authorised and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
L ines are open Monday Friday from 8.30am 5.30pm UK time, excluding UK public holidays.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 161 Shareholder information continued Shareholder profile by size of holding as at 31 December 2015 Shares held Range No.
of holders % of total 31.12.2015 % of total Private shareholders 609 42.17% 1,889,006 0.25% Nominees and other institutional investors 835 57.83% 744,130,401 99.75% 1,444 100.00% 746,019,407 100.00% It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through nominee companies and therefore the percentage of shares held by private shareholders may be higher than that shown.
Shareholders rights The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating to the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Articles can be found on the Companys website.
Voting: At a general meeting, subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares: a on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy present shall have one vote: b on a show of hands, a proxy has one vote for and one vote against the resolution if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution and the proxy has been so instructed: and c on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by him.
Unless the Directors resolve otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to general meetings if any call or other sum due from him to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Transfer of shares: Transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members in respect of those shares.
The Directors may decline to register any transfer of a certificated share, unless a the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, b the instrument of transfer is lodged at the transfer office, duly stamped if required, accompanied by the relevant share certificate s or other evidence reasonably required by the Directors to show the transferors right to make the transfer or, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on the transferors behalf, the authority of that person to do so, and c the certificated share is fully paid up.
The Directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Directors powers: The Directors shall manage the business and affairs of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company other than those that are required by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act or by the Articles to be exercised by the Company at the general meeting.
The Directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions, including those involving the payment of remuneration or the conferring of any other benefit to the Directors, to such person or committee and in such manner as they think fit.
Any such person orcommittee shall, unless the Directors otherwise resolve, have the power to sub-delegate any of the powers or discretions delegated to them.
Dividends: The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare final dividends to be paid to its shareholders.
However, no dividend shall be declared unless it has been recommended by the Directors and does not exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If the Directors believe that the profits of the Company justify such payment, they may pay dividends on any class of share where the dividend is payable on fixed dates.
162 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information They may also pay interim dividends on shares of any class in amounts and on dates and periods as they think fit.
Unless the share rights otherwise provide, all dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the shares on which the dividend is paid, and apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
Any unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise applied for the benefit of the Company until they are claimed.
Any dividend unclaimed for 12 years from the date on which it was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
The Directors may, if authorised by ordinary resolution, offer to ordinary shareholders the right to elect to receive, in lieu of a dividend, an allotment of new ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
Borrowing powers: The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage orcharge its undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital, and to issue debentures and other securities whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Advisors Auditors: Financial PR advisors: Ernst & Young LLP Brunswick Group LLP One More London Place 16 Lincolns Inn Fields London SE1 2AF London WC2A 3ED United Kingdom United Kingdom Solicitors: Corporate brokers: Linklaters Jefferies Hoare Govett One Silk Street Vintners Place London EC2Y 8HQ 68 Upper Thames Street United Kingdom London, EC4V 3BJ Bankers: Morgan Stanley HSBC Bank plc 20 Bank Street 70 Pall Mall Canary Wharf London SW1 5EY London, E14 4AD United Kingdom RBC Capital Markets Thames Court One Queenhithe London, EC4V 3DQ Annual Report and Accounts 2015 163
