Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Notes to the financial statements 1 Corporate information Ophir Energy plc the Company and ultimate parent of the Group is a public limited company domiciled and incorporated in England andWales.
The Companys registered offices are located at 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE.
The principal activity of the Group is the development of offshore and deepwater oil and gas exploration assets.
The Company has an extensive and diverse portfolio of exploration interests across Africa and Southeast Asia.
The Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 9th March 2016 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Nicholas Smith and Tony Rouse.
2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain derivative instruments measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except as otherwise indicated.
Comparative figures for the period to 31 December 2014 are for the year ended on that date.
Adoption of new accounting policies The Group has adopted the following relevant new accounting policies as a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 3March2015 the acquisition date and effective date of adoption : Commercial reserves 2.3 a & 2.4 Oil and gas properties 2.3 d & 2.4 Derivative financial instruments 2.3 e Inventories of oil 2.3 f Provision for decommissioning 2.3 g & 2.4 Revenue recognition: sale of oil and petroleum products 2.3 m Cost of sales: underlift and overlift 2.3 n Royalties, resource rent tax and revenue-based taxes 2.3 u New and amended accounting standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following relevant new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2015: Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle These new and amended standards and interpretations have not materially affected amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following interpretation to existing standards relevant to the Group is not yet effective and has not been early adopted by the Group.
The Group expects to adopt this interpretation in accordance with the effective date of 1 January 2016.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 The narrow-focus amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
In most cases the proposed amendments respond to overly prescriptive interpretations of the wording in IAS 1.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The following standards and interpretations, relevant to the Group, have been issued by the IASB, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 and have not been early adopted by the Group: Effective date for periods beginning on or after 1 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts 1 January 2018 1 Amendment to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 1 Amendment to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities Applying the Consolidation Exception 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016 1 IFRS 11 Amendment: Accounting for acquisitions of interests in Joint Ventures 1 January 2016 1 These standards, amendments and improvements have not yet been adopted by the European Union.
The Group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results, except as outlined below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The IASB The IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 in July 2014, which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments and hedge accounting, and will be adopted by the Group when it becomes mandatory in the European Union.
The Group is currently reviewing the standard to determine the likely impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, replaces all existing revenue requirements IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and SIC 31 Revenue Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers: The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but currently expects that it will not have a material impact on the Groups results.
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle.
The Group is currently reviewing the above amendments to determine the likely impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements from the changes arising from these standards and interpretations.
They are not expected to materially affect amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups consolidated financial statements, with the exception of IFRS 16 Leases, the full impact of which is still being considered.
2.2 Basis of consolidation These financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporates theresults of its joint ventures and associates using the equity method of accounting, drawn up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability toaffect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has all of thefollowing: Power over the investee i. e. existing voting rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of thethree elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
104 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over asubsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any noncontrolling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: and vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit and loss: vii reclassifies the parentsshare of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit and loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies a Commercial reserves Commercial reserves are proved and probable oil and gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gasand natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially viable.
Proved and probable reserve estimates arebased on a number of underlying assumptions including oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, which are inherently uncertain.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
However, the amount ofreserves that will ultimately be recovered from any field cannot be known with certainty until the end of the fields life.
b Intangible exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation E&E expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources.
The Group applies the successful efforts method of accounting for E&E costs as permitted by IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs such as geological, geochemical and geophysical costs, exploratory drilling and other direct costs associated with finding mineral resources are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Costs other than payments for the acquisition of rights toexplore incurred prior to acquiring legal rights to explore an area and general exploration costs not specific to any particular licence orprospect are charged directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
E&E assets are not amortised prior to the determination of the results of exploration activity.
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence block are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined, subject to certain limitations including review for indicators of impairment.
If, at completion of evaluation activities, technical and commercial feasibility is demonstrated, then, following recognition of commercial reserves, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset is then reclassified as a development and production asset subject to an impairment assessment before reclassification.
If, on completion of evaluation activities, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right toexplore expires or if the Group decides not to continue E&E activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful E&E are written off to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the period of that determination.
Impairment E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of an E&E asset may exceed itsrecoverable amount.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for impairment test purposes is generally the block, except that a number ofblock interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each block are interdependent.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, management will assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset or CGU.
This review includes a status report confirming that E&E drilling is still under way or firmly planned, or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine that the discovery is economically viable.
This assessment is based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and confirming that sufficient progress is being made to establish development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, or the value of the asset cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, the balance of the E&E costs are written off in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Farm-in farm-out arrangements The Group may enter into farm-in or farm-out arrangements, where it may introduce partners to share in the development of an asset.
Fortransactions involving assets at the exploration and evaluation phase, the Group adopts an accounting policy as permitted by IFRS 6 such that the Group does not record any expenditure made on its behalf under a carried interest by a farm-in partner the farmee.
Whereapplicable past costs are reimbursed, any cash consideration received directly from the farmee is credited against costs previously capitalised in relation to the whole interest with any excess accounted for by the farmor as a gain on disposal.
Farmed-out oil and gas properties are accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
c Business combinations On an acquisition that qualifies as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill which is treated as an intangible asset.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period of acquisition.
A business combination is a transaction in which an acquirer obtains control of a business.
A business is defined as an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends or lower costs or other economic benefits directly to investors or other owners or participants.
A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest NCI in the acquiree.
Foreach business combination, the Group elects whether to measure NCI in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in general and administration expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Those oil and gas reserves that are able to be reliably measured are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot be reliably measured, are not recognised separately, but instead are subsumed in goodwill.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree isremeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date being the date the acquirer gains control in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes tothe fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either inprofit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured inaccordance with the appropriate IFRS.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
d Property, plant and equipment Oil and gas properties and other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Oil and gas properties cost Development and production assets are generally accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production.
The initial cost of a development and production asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of the decommissioning obligation and, for qualifying assets where relevant, borrowing costs.
When a development project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain construction development costs ceases, and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to oil and gas property asset additions, improvements or new developments.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Oil and gas properties depreciation Oil and gas properties are depreciated amortised from the commencement of production, on a unit-of-production basis, which is the ratio of oiland gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net carrying amount of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs.
The production and reserve estimates used in the calculation are on an entitlements basis.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
106 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, butaredepreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
Other fixed assets Property, plant and equipment other than oil and gas properties, is depreciated at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life of between three and 10 years.
Impairment The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset or CGU may be impaired.
Management has assessed its CGUs as being an individual block, which is the lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of those of other assets.
If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the assets or CGUs recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or CGUs fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and value in use VIU.
The recoverable amount is then determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, in which case the asset is tested as part of a larger CGU to which it belongs.
Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset or CGU is considered impaired and written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
e Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups consolidated statement of financial position when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plustransaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, held-tomaturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition ofinterest would be immaterial.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over therelevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as financial assets at FVTPL where the Group acquires the financial asset principally for the purpose of sellingin the near term, is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actualpattern of short term profit taking as well as all derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other financial gains and losses line item in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
All impairment losses are taken to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Trade receivables are assessed for impairment based on the number of days outstanding on individual invoices.
Any trade receivable that is deemed uncollectible is immediately written off to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, any subsequent recoveries are also taken directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income upon receipt of cash collected.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other financial gains and losses line item in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Cash and short-term deposits Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, but exclude any restricted cash.
Restricted cash is not available for use by the Group and therefore is not considered highly liquid for example cash set aside to cover rehabilitation obligations.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Short-term investments Short-term investments in the statement of financial position comprise cash deposits that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rate.
v. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to movements in oil and gas prices, interest rates and foreign exchange.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments at fair value Gains or losses on derivatives are taken directly to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the period.
The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
108 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The estimated fair value of these derivatives is disclosed in trade and other receivables or trade and other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position and the related changes in the fair value are included in other financial gains and losses in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
f Inventories Inventories of oil, materials and drilling consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by using weighted average cost method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of transportation and other related expenses.
g Provisions General A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Decommissioning liability The Group recognises a decommissioning liability where it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and itisprobable than an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The obligation generally arises when the asset is installed or the ground environment is disturbed at the field location.
When the liability isinitially recognised, the present value of the estimated costs is capitalised by increasing the carrying amount of the related oil and gas assets to the extent that it was incurred by the development construction of the field.
Changes in the estimated timing or cost of decommissioning are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision andacorresponding adjustment to oil and gas assets.
Any reduction in the decommissioning liability and, therefore, any deduction from the asset to which it relates, may not exceed the carrying amount of that asset.
If it does, any excess over the carrying value is taken immediately to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
If the change in estimate results in an increase in the decommissioning liability and, therefore, an addition to the carrying value of the asset, the Group considers whether this is an indication of impairment of the asset as a whole, and if so, tests for impairment.
If, for mature fields, the estimate for the revised value of oil and gas assets net of decommissioning provisions exceeds the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
Over time, the discounted liability is increased for the change in present value based on the discount rate that reflects current market assessments and risks specific to the liability.
The periodic unwinding of the discount is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as a finance cost.
The Company recognises neither the deferred tax asset in respect of the temporary difference on the decommissioning liability nor the corresponding deferred tax liability in respect of the temporary difference on a decommissioning asset.
h Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group does not operate its own pension plan but makes pension or superannuation contributions to private funds of its employees which are defined contribution plans.
The cost of providing such benefits are expensed in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
i Employee benefits Salaries, wages, annual leave and sick leave Liabilities for salaries and wages, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled within12 months of the reporting date are recognised in respect of employees services up to the reporting date.
They are measured attheamounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leaveis taken and are measured at the rates paid or payable.
Long service leave The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect ofservices provided by employees up to the reporting date using the projected unit credit method.
Consideration is given to the expected future wage and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued j Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
k Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
The Group has leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Such leases are classified asoperating leases and rentals payable are charged to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income on astraight line basis over the lease term.
l Interests in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing ofcontrol of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities being those that significantly affect the returns of the arrangement require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint operations A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets andobligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
In relation to its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its: Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly ii.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets ofthe joint arrangement.
The Groups investment in its joint venture is accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not individually tested for impairment.
The consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of the joint venture is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as part of operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and NCI in the subsidiaries of joint venture.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired.
Ifthere is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method in theconsolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
On loss of joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the joint venture upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds fromdisposal is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
m Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and receivable, excluding discounts, sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies.
110 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Revenue from the sale of oil and petroleum products is recognised on an entitlement basis when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, which is considered to occur when title passes to the customer.
This generally occurs when the product isphysically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue from the production of oil, in which the Group has an interest with other producers, is recognised based on the Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts.
Gains and losses on derivative contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as held for trading purposes are reported on a net basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
n Cost of sales Underlift and overlift Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are valued at market value and included within receivables and payables respectively.
Movements during an accounting period are adjusted through cost of sales such that gross profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
o Interest income Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated futurecash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest incomeis included in net finance costs in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
p Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
The estimated fair value of these derivatives is included in other creditors or other debtors in the consolidated statement of financial position and the related changes in the fair value are included in other financial gains and losses in the consolidated income statement andstatement of comprehensive income.
q Finance costs and borrowings Finance costs of borrowings are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Debtisshown on the consolidated statement of financial position net of arrangement fees and issue costs, and amortised through totheconsolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as finance costs over the term of the debt.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assetsare substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit and loss in the period in which they are incurred.
r Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted andis recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled tothe award.
Fair value is determined with reference to the market value of the underlying shares using a pricing model appropriate to the circumstances which requires judgements as to the selection of both the valuation model and inputs.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition oranon-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each consolidated statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated on the basis of the extent towhich the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
Themovement in cumulative expense since the previous consolidated statement of financial position date is recognised in the consolidatedincome statement and statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based onthe original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder ofthe new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award andthe fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in theincome statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the consolidated income statement.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions with third parties, the goods or services received are measured at the date of receipt by reference to their fair value with a corresponding entry in equity.
If the Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or services received, their value is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
s Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined on an individual basis according to the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date ofthe transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at thestatement of financial position date.
All exchange differences are taken to the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling as at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at a revalued amount in a foreign currency aretranslated using the spot exchange rate ruling at the date when the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations whose functional currency is other than that of the presentation currency of the Group are translated into the presentation currency, at the rate of exchange ruling at the consolidated statement of financial position date.
Income and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly toa separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
t Income taxes Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based ontax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the consolidated statement of financial position date.
Current income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income taxis recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not abusiness combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business combinations.
Deferred tax isrecognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged and credited in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that itisnolonger probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be available to allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
112 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the consolidated statement offinancial position date.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise deferred income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
In order to account for uncertain tax positions, management has formed an accounting policy, in accordance with IAS 8, whereby the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings is viewed as a single unit of account.
The results of separate hearings in relation to the same matter, such as local tribunals and international arbitration, are not viewed separately and only the final outcome is assessed by management to determine the best estimate of any potential outcome.
If management viewed the results of individual hearings separately an income statement charge could arise due to the differing recognition criteria of assets and liabilities.
u Royalties, resource rent tax and revenue-based taxes In addition to corporate taxes, the Groups consolidated financial statements also include and recognise as taxes on income, other types oftaxes on net income such as certain royalties, resource rent taxes and revenue-based taxes.
Royalties, resource rent taxes and revenue-based taxes are accounted for under IAS 12 when they have the characteristics of an income tax.
This is considered to be the case when they are imposed under government tax authority and the amount payable is based on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced or as a percentage of revenue after adjustment for temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements and other types of taxes that do not satisfy these criteria are accrued and included in cost of sales.
v Impairment The accounting policies for the impairment of intangible exploration and evaluation assets and oil and gas properties is described in more detail in 2.3 b, 2.3 d and 2.4.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an intangible asset or item of property, plant & equipment may beimpaired.
If any indication exists, the Group estimates the assets recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or cash-generating units CGU fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Inassessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair valueindicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years.
Impairment losses of continuing operations including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation.
Where conditions giving rise tothe impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed, net of any depreciation that would have beencharged since the impairment.
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under thecircumstances.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to thecarrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required.
Further information oneach of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Oil & gas prices Future oil & gas prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within the range of available analyst forecasts.
Where existing sales contracts are in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account indetermining future cash flows.
Commercial reserves Management is required to assess the level of the Groups commercial reserves together with the future expenditures to access those reserves, which are utilised in determining the amortisation and depreciation charge for the period and assessing whether any impairment charge is required.
The Group employs independent reserves specialists who periodically report on the Groups level of commercial reserves by evaluating the estimates of the Groups in house reserves specialists and where necessary referencing geological, geophysical and engineering data together with reports, presentation and financial information pertaining to the contractual and fiscal terms applicable tothe Groups assets.
In addition the Group undertakes its own assessment of commercial reserves, using standard evaluation techniques and related future capital expenditure by reference to the same datasets using its own internal expertise.
The estimates adopted by the Group may differ from the independent reserves specialists estimates where management considers that adjustments are appropriate inthe circumstances.
The last assessment by its independent reserves specialist was as at 1 January 2016.
Intangible exploration and evaluation expenditure The application of the Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploration, development or asset sale, or whether activities have not reached a stagewhich permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
Management is also required to assess impairment in respect of exploration and evaluation assets.
The intangible exploration and evaluation assets note discloses the carrying value of such assets.
The triggering events for impairment are defined in IFRS 6.
In making theassessment, management is required to make judgements on the status of each project and assumptions about future events and circumstances, in particular, whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
The assessments require the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, exploration potential, and reserves.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Therefore, there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will impact these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets and or CGUs.
Oil and gas properties Management is required to assess impairment in respect of oil and gas property assets at least annually with reference to indicators in IAS36 Impairment of Assets.
Note 14 to these consolidated financial statements discloses the carrying value of such oil and gas property assets.
In making the assessment, management is required to estimate the recoverable amount for each asset held and compare that value to the net carrying amount of the asset at the balance sheet date.
Such a review is done at least annually.
This requires estimates to be made of in particular: future commodity prices, production volumes, capital operating expenditure and appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
Details of the Groups other property plant and equipment are provided in Note 15 to these consolidated financial statements.
The assessments require the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, exploration potential, and commercial reserves.
Provision for decommissioning Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors, including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new technology or experience at other production sites.
The expected timing, extent and amount of expenditure may also change.
Therefore significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for decommissioning.
As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions established which would affect future financial results.
The estimated decommissioning costs are reviewed annually by an external expert and the results of this review are then used for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Provision for environmental clean-up and remediation costs is based on current legal and contractual requirements, technology and price levels.
114 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Share-based payments Management is required to make assumptions and use their judgement when determining the inputs used to value share-based payment arrangements made during the year.
Details of the inputs adopted when valuing share-based payment arrangements can be found in the share-based compensation note.
Management bases these assumptions on observable market data such as the Groups share price history and risk free interest rates offered on Government bonds.
Recovery of deferred tax assets Judgement is required to determine which arrangements are considered to be a tax on income as opposed to an operating cost.
Judgement is required to determine whether deferred tax assets are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate sufficient taxable profits in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These estimates are based on forecast cash flows from operations which are impacted by production and sales volumes, oil and natural gas prices, reserves, operating costs, decommissioning costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions and judgement about the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise deferred tax assets could be impacted.
The Group establishes tax provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience with previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
Special remuneratory benefit tax The Group is subject to a special remuneratory benefit tax in Thailand, the rate for which depends on the annual revenue per cumulative metre drilled.
Accordingly the tax rate to be applied in calculating the Groups deferred special remuneratory benefit tax depends on managements forecast of future revenues and drilling activities.
3 Segmental analysis The Groups reportable and geographical segments are Africa, Asia and Other.
The Other segment includes the corporate centres in the UK, Australia and Singapore.
Segment revenues and results The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and assets by reportable segment: Year ended 31 December 2015 Africa Asia Other Total $000 $000 $000 $000 Revenue sales of crude oil 161,090 161,090 Depreciation and amortisation 80,943 80,943 Impairment of exploration costs 134,640 14,340 148,980 Impairment of oil and gas properties 126,732 126,732 Impairment of investments accounted for using the equity method 42,117 42,117 Share of profit of equity-accounted joint venture 7,219 7,219 Operating loss profit 154,270 169,029 45,459 368,758 Finance income 405 9,170 964 10,539 Finance expense 383 18,641 2,177 21,201 Other financial gains 3,372 3,372 Loss before tax 154,248 175,128 46,672 376,048 Taxation 53,596 Loss after tax 322,452 Total assets and total liabilities As at 31 December 2015 Total assets 705,430 1,164,134 554,298 2,423,862 Total liabilities 138,529 628,340 7,489 774,358 Investments accounted for using the equity method 130,200 130,200 Year ended 31 December 2015 Additions to non-current assets 37,016 137,666 174,682 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysiscontinued Comparatives for the year ending 31 December 2014 have not been presented because the Groups only reportable segment under IFRS8was the exploration and evaluation of oil and gas related projects in Africa.
Non-current operating assets The non-current operating assets for the UK are $4.0 million.
The non-UK, non-current operating assets are $1,543.1million 2014: $767.1 million.
Included in the non-UK, non-current operating assets is Thailand which makes up $455.7 million 2014: nil and Equatorial Guinea which makes up $547.3 million 2014: $529.1 million.
Revenue from major customers All sales of crude oil are to a single customer PTT Public Company Limited PTT.
PTT is a Thai state-owned oil and gas company that islisted on the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
4 Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Sales of crude oil 161,090 161,090 5 Operating loss profit before taxation The Groups operating loss profit before taxation included the following items: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 a Cost of sales: Operating costs 31,797 Royalty payable 14,548 Depreciation and amortisation of oil and gas properties 80,943 Movement in inventories of oil 1,528 128,816 b Gain on farm-out: Gain on farm-out Note 13 245 671,677 c Exploration expenses: Pre licence exploration costs 34,157 23,947 Exploration expenditure written off Note 13 148,980 309,835 183,137 333,782 d General & administration expenses include: Operating lease payments 7,400 4,865 Corporate transaction expense Note 10 8,000 Share-based payment expense 4,594 6,876 19,994 11,741 e Other operating expenses: Loss profit on disposal of assets 703 2 Depreciation of other property, plant & equipment 4,184 1,955 Impairment of goodwill 20,868 Provision for exiting contract Note 25 20,000 Other 377 25,264 22,821 116 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 6 Net finance expense Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Interest income on short-term bank deposits 1,673 3,630 Other interest income 3,419 1 Interest expense on long term borrowings 17,099 Unwinding of discount Note 25 1,250 Net foreign currency exchange losses 6,014 12,910 10,662 5,861 1 Includes interest capitalised using a rate of 6.7%.
7 Other financial gains Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Realisation settlement gains on hedging 17,091 Loss relating to oil derivatives 14,001 Gain on bond redemption Note 23 282 3,372 8 Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its Auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided tothe Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 a Paid payable to Ernst & Young LLP Audit of the financial statements 726 372 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 362 39 Total audit services 1,088 411 Audit related assurance services 334 57 Corporate finance services 794 544 2,216 1,012 b Paid payable to Auditor if not Ernst & Young LLP Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 254 5 Taxation services 1,029 810 Corporate finance services 68 804 Other services 582 1,933 1,619 4,149 2,631 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Staff costs and Directors emoluments a Staff costs Employee costs including payments to Directors during the year comprised: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Salaries and wages 51,095 33,574 Social security costs 5,109 3,722 Contributions to pension plans superannuation funds 3,033 2,095 Share-based payment expense Note 33 4,594 6,876 63,831 46,267 b Key management The table below sets out the details of the emoluments of the Groups key management including Directors: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 6,324 10,531 Social security costs 778 1,602 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 346 574 1 Compensation for loss of office 1,780 Share-based payment expense Note 33 1,478 5,391 8,926 19,878 1 Compensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of nil 2014: $943,366.
Key management emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of nil 2014: $1,019,827.
c Directors emoluments Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 i Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 2,223 3,103 Bonuses 781 2,251 Social security costs 392 981 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 151 228 1 Compensation for loss of office 943 Other benefits 18 44 3,565 7,550 1 Compensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of nil 2014: $943,366.
Directors emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of $nil 2014: $1,019,827.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 ii Share-based payment expense Note 33 449 3,444 Number of Directors to whom superannuation or pension benefits accrued during the year 2 4 118 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information d Average number of persons employed full time equivalents : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 CEO 1 1 Exploration and technical 144 35 Commercial and support 188 91 333 127 10 Business combinations Acquisition of Salamander Energy plc On 3 March 2015 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Salamander Energy Plc Salamander, a Southeast Asian focused independent exploration and production company quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The enlarged Group enhances Ophirs operating capabilities in both Africa and Southeast Asia and deepwater expertise across key technical and commercial functions.
The combined Group provides shareholders with a diversified exposure to 21 production, development and exploration blocks inAfrica and Southeast Asia.
The Group announced that the scheme of arrangement was approved by Salamanders shareholders on 6 February 2015 and was sanctioned by the Supreme Court in London effective on 2 March 2015.
The consideration of $326.1 million was satisfied in full by equity bywhich Salamander shareholders received 0.5719 Ophir ordinary shares for each Salamander ordinary share held.
The acquisition will be accounted for as a single business combination.
The fair value assessment of the Salamander identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as at the date of acquisition have been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Details of the Group accounting policies in relation to business combinations are contained in Note 2 of these consolidated financial statements.
The fair values of the assets acquired have been calculated using valuation techniques based on discounted cash flows using forward curve commodity prices, a discount rate based on market observable data and cost and production profiles.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Salamander as at the date of acquisition were: Fair Value as at 3 Mar 2015 $000 Assets Exploration & evaluation assets 132,000 Oil & gas properties 827,131 Other property, plant & equipment 1,869 Financial assets 46,749 Investments accounted for using the equity method 167,000 Inventory 19,142 Trade and other receivables 68,680 Cash and cash equivalents 48,827 1,311,398 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Business combinations continued Fair Value as at 3 Mar 2015 $000 Liabilities Trade and other payables 42,216 Current tax liability 97,375 Interest-bearing bank borrowings 253,918 2 Convertible bonds 93,959 Bonds payable 154,835 Provisions 64,127 Deferred tax liability 278,837 985,267 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 326,131 Goodwill arising on acquisition Consideration satisfied by the issue of: 3 Equity instruments 152,208,612 ordinary shares of parent company 326,131 Total consideration transferred 326,131 326,131 1 T he fair value of the trade and other receivables amounts to $68.7 million.
None of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full contractual amount can be collected.
2 The convertible bonds were redeemed at par value $94.0 million on 30 March 2015.
Accrued interest up to the date of redemption $2.35 million was also paid on this date.
3 T he Group issued 152,208,612 new shares in consideration for the entire share capital of Salamander.
The fair value of the shares is the published price of the shares of the Group at the acquisition date.
Therefore, the fair value of the share consideration given is $326.1 million.
From the date of acquisition, 3 March 2015 to 31 December 2015, Salamander contributed $161.1 million to Group revenue and a loss of $132.2million to Group loss after taxation.
If the acquisition of Salamander had taken place at the beginning of the year, Salamander contribution toGroup revenue and loss after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2015 would be $211.1 million and $147.7 million respectively.
The corporate costs associated with the transaction amounted to $8.0 million and have been expensed in general and administration expenses in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
11 Taxation a Taxation credit charge Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Current income tax: UK corporation tax UK corporation tax adjustment in respect of prior periods 341 Foreign tax: Special remuneratory benefit 19,610 Other foreign tax 4,719 209,259 Other foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior periods 297 809 Total current income tax charge 24,626 210,409 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Special remuneratory benefit 43,603 Other foreign tax 34,619 23,242 Total deferred income tax credit charge 78,222 23,342 Tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 53,596 233,651 Special remuneratory benefit SRB is a tax that arises on one of the Groups assets, Bualuang in Thailand at rates that vary from zero to 75% of annual petroleum profit depending on the level of annual revenue per cumulative metre drilled.
Petroleum profit for the purpose of SRB is calculated as revenue less a number of deductions including operating costs, royalty, capital expenditures, special reduction an uplift of certain capital expenditures and losses brought forward.
120 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information b Reconciliation of the total tax credit charge The tax benefit not recognised in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income is reconciled to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
The differences are reconciled below: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Loss profit on operations before taxation 376,048 288,493 Loss profit on operations before taxation multiplied by the applicable rate of 36%, being the average weighted corporate tax rate for the Group 2014: Based on the UK Corporation tax rate of 21.5% 138,125 62,026 Non-deductible expenditure 88,168 6,132 Share-based payments 929 634 Tax effect of SRB 11,997 Effect of overseas tax rates 92,492 Tax effect of equity accounted investments 3,610 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 10,742 71,389 Other adjustments 172 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 297 1,150 Total tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 53,596 233,651 c Reconciliation of SRB charge to loss from operations before taxation The taxation charge for SRB for the year can be reconciled to the loss from operations before tax per the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Loss from operations before taxation 376,048 Add back losses from operations before taxation for activities outside of Thailand 296,547 Loss from operations before taxation for activities in Thailand 79,501 Deduct share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 7,219 Loss before taxation for activities in Thailand 86,721 Applicable rate of SRB 28% Tax at the applicable rate of SRB 24,282 Change in average SRB deferred tax rate 37,450 Effect of average SRB deferred tax rate compared to current SRB tax rate 28,791 Other non deductible costs 8,948 Total SRB credit 23,993 d Deferred income tax As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Deferred tax balances relate to the following: Corporate tax on fixed asset timing differences 236,247 SRB on fixed asset timing differences 9,498 Exploration and evaluation assets 38,048 Fair value adjustment in respect of exploration expenses 6,000 245,745 44,048 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Taxation continued e Unrecognised tax losses The Group has gross tax losses arising in the UK of $192,101,762 2014: $135,921,762 and Australia $5,884,000 2014: $7,331,000 that are available to carry forward indefinitely to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is not sufficient certainty that taxable income will be realised in the future due tothe nature of the Groups international exploration activities and the long lead times in either developing or otherwise realising exploration assets.
f Other unrecognised temporary differences The Group has other net unrecognised temporary differences in the various African countries where we are active totalling $164,441,000 2014: $164,441,000 in respect of provisions and exploration expenditure for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
g Change in corporation tax rate Deferred tax has been calculated at the rates substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax in the year changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
Any UK deferred tax that is recognised is therefore recognised at the reduced rate of 20%.
Deferred tax in Kenya and Tanzania is provided for at the statutory rate of 30% 2014: 30%.
Deferred tax in Thailand is provided for at the statutory rate of 50%.
Deferred tax in Indonesia is provided for at the statutory rateof 44%.
12 Earning per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Earnings Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share Loss profit for the year 322,452 54,842 Less non-controlling interest 4 Loss profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 322,452 54,846 Cents Cents Basic loss earnings per ordinary share 47.1 9.4 Effect of potentially dilutive share options Diluted loss earnings per ordinary share 47.1 9.4 As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 685 578 Potentially dilutive share options and warrants 12 6 697 584 No ordinary shares of 0.25p each have been issued on exercise of options and warrants between the year ended 31 December 2015 and the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
122 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 13 Exploration and evaluation assets Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 764,933 1,124,423 1 Additions 131,961 594,340 2 Acquisition of subsidiary 132,000 3 Expenditure written off 148,980 309,835 4 Recovery of costs incurred on farm-out of exploration interests 643,995 Balance at the end of the year 879,914 764,933 1 A dditions in the period include exploration activities in: Myanmar Block AD03 $28.3 million, Thailand G4 50 $19.7 million and Equatorial Guinea Block R $18.3 million and five Indonesian PSClicences from Niko Resources Limited $25.3million.
The licences acquired from Niko Resources were accounted for as an asset purchase as they did not meet the definition of a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
2 Acquisition of subsidiary: Refer to Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements.
3 E xpenditure write off for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $149.0 million.
The significant write offs included within the $149.0 million are listed below: Expenditure write off in respect of Kenya: loss of $62.6 million Block L9, in respect of Gabon: loss of $12.5 million Ntsina Block, loss of $17.8 million Mbeli Block and in respect of three Blocks in theSeychelles a loss of $24.4 million.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the Blocks.
The recoverable amounts for each Block was nil.
This was based on managements estimate of value in use.
Expenditure write off of $309.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprised of: E xpenditure write off in respect of Tanzania: loss of $107.3 million East Pande Block, loss of $80.3 million Block 7, in respect of Gabon: loss of $62.8 million Gnondo Block, and in respect of Kenya: loss of $59.4 million Block L9.
The trigger for expenditure write off was managements assessment that no further expenditure on exploration and evaluation of hydrocarbons in the Blocks was budgeted or planned within the current licences terms.
The recoverable amounts for each Block was nil, except for Kenya Block L9 where it was $60.4 million.
4 Recovery of costs incurred on farm-out of exploration interest include: The Groups disposal in 2014 of a 20% interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4.
The Group received cash consideration of $1,250 million plus a completion adjustment to reflect interest and working capital movements from the effective date of the transaction of 1 January 2014.
A further $38.0 million is payable following the final investment decision in respect of the development of Blocks 1, 3 & 4, currently expected in 2016.
The total gain on disposal recognised for the year ended 31 December 2014 was $671.7 million.
The Group also received $77.8 million relating to the farm-out of the Gabonese exploration blocks.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
Future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate of 15% 2014: post-tax 10%.
Adjustments to cash flows are made to reflect the risks specific to the CGU.
14 Oil and gas properties Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the year Acquisition of subsidiary Note 10 827,131 Additions 42,721 Balance at the end of the year 869,852 Depreciation and amortisation Balance at the beginning of the year Charge for the year 80,943 1 Charge for impairment 126,732 Balance at the end of the year 207,675 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year Balance at the end of the year 662,177 1 T he 2015 impairment charge of $126.7m related to the Bualuang oil field in Thailand which has a recoverable amount of $387.2m based on managements estimate of value in use.
The discount rate used was 15%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Other property, plant and equipment Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Office furniture and equipment Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 11,278 5,786 Foreign currency translation 575 766 Acquisition of subsidiary Note 10 1,869 Additions 2,066 4,770 Disposals 3,812 44 Balance at the end of the year 10,826 11,278 Depreciation Balance at the beginning of the year 4,971 2,549 Foreign currency translation 361 511 Depreciation charge for the year 4,184 1,955 Disposals 3,108 44 Balance at the end of the year 5,686 4,971 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year 6,307 3,237 Balance at the end of the year 5,140 6,307 16 Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Security deposits Rental properties 6,374 3,646 1 Security deposits Exploration commitments 2,530 13,458 Other long term receivables 18,349 27,253 17,104 1 Floating interest deposits pledged to third parties or banks as security in relation to the Groups exploration commitments.
17 Inventory As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Oil 1,527 Materials and consumables 48,689 23,902 50,216 23,902 124 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 18 Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Trade and other debtors 27,471 10,056 Prepayments 4,600 2,783 32,071 12,839 All debtors are current.
There are no receivables that are past due or impaired.
Trade and other debtors primarily relate to receivables from joint operation partners.
Due to the short-term nature of these receivables, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value.
19 Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Cash 116,060 138,603 Cash equivalents 498,509 739,269 614,569 877,872 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits and other short-term money market deposit accounts that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is $614.6 million 2014: $877.9 million.
20 Investments As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Short-term investments 294,904 Short-term investments consist of cash deposit accounts that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rates.
The fair value of short-term investments is nil 2014: $294.9 million.
21 Trade and other payables As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Trade payables 22,310 3,004 Accruals 91,350 221,681 Payables in relation to joint operation partners 2,311 17,463 115,971 242,148 Trade payables are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Interest bearing bank loans Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year Acquisition of subsidiary Note 10 253,918 Less: amounts repaid during the period 100,910 Less: amounts due within one year 37,059 Balance at the end of the year 115,949 Interest-bearing bank borrowings comprise a $350 million senior reserves based lending facility.
The facility has been arranged for a period of seven years commencing in December 2012.
The senior reserves based lending facility is secured against certain of the Groups Thailand and Indonesia development and producing assets.
There has been no breach of terms on the borrowing facility.
The key terms of the facility are: Initial facility amount of up to $350 million.
Financial covenants relating to the ratio of the loan balance outstanding to the net present value of cash flows of the secured assets and relating to the ratio of the loan balance outstanding to the net present value of cash flows during the life of the loan of the secured assets.
Financial covenants relating to the maximum amount of borrowings of the Group.
The Group may draw an amount up to the lower of the facility amount being $350 million as at 31 December 2015 or the borrowing base amount as determined by the forecast cash flows arising from the borrowing base assets of $153 million.
As at 31 December 2015 the facility available is $153 million Interest accrues at a rate of between 3.70% and 4.20% plus LIBOR depending on the maturity of the assets.
The borrowing base amount is re-determined on a semi-annual basis: with the Group further having the option to undertake two mid-period redeterminations in each year should it elect to do so.
The acquisition of Salamander by Ophir on 3 March 2015 refer to Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements constituted a change of control under the terms of the facility.
Prior to this transaction completing, a waiver was obtained from the lending banks such that the terms of the borrowing facility were not impacted at the date of completion.
23 Bonds payable Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year Acquisition of subsidiary: 9.75% Unsecured, callable bonds at $150 million par value Note 10 154,835 Redemption 9.75% Unsecured, callable bonds at $45.2 million par value 45,652 Gain on redemption Note 7 282 Coupon interest charged 9,510 Interest paid 11,760 Balance at the end of the year 106,651 The unsecured callable bonds were issued by Salamander in December 2013 at an issue price of $150 million.
The bonds have a term of sixyears and one month and will be repaid in full at maturity.
The bonds carry a coupon of 9.75% and were issued at par.
On 5 May 2015, bond holders exercised put options at 101% for the redemption of bonds with a par value of $45.2 million.
126 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 24 Net debt As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Amounts Due on Maturity: Interest bearing bank loans see Note 22 153,008 Bonds payable see Note 23 106,651 Total gross debt 259,659 Less cash and cash equivalents see Note 19 614,569 877,872 Total net cash debt 354,910 877,872 At the balance sheet date, the bank borrowings are calculated to be repayable as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 On demand or due within one year 37,059 In the second year 43,701 In the third to fifth year inclusive 178,899 After five years Total principal payable on maturity 259,659 25 Provisions Decommissioning and restoration Litigation and of oil and gas other claims Other provision Total $000 $000 $000 $000 At 1 January 2014 24,700 10,908 35,608 Arising during the year 1,650 76 1,726 Utilised paid 10,000 10,000 Foreign exchange revaluation 57 57 Amounts released 227 227 At 31 December 2014 26,350 700 27,050 Acquisition of subsidiary Note 10 64,127 64,127 Arising during the period 1,956 22,792 24,748 Utilised paid Unwinding of discount Note 6 1,250 1,250 Foreign exchange revaluation 179 179 Amounts released 143 1,926 2,069 At 31 December 2015 67,190 26,350 21,387 114,927 Balance at the end of the year Current 26,350 21,387 47,737 Non-current 67,190 67,190 67,190 26,350 21,387 114,927 Balance at the beginning of the year Current 26,350 437 26,787 Non-current 263 263 26,350 700 27,050 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Provisions continued Decommissioning and restoration of oil and gas assets The provision outstanding at 31 December 2015 is expected to fall due from 2035 onwards.
Litigation and Other Claims Litigation and other claims consist of separate legal matters, including claims arising from trading activities, in various Group companies and at various stages of negotiation.
The majority of any cash outflow from these matters is expected to occur within the next 12 months, although this is dependent on the development of the various legal claims.
In the Directors opinion, after taking appropriate legal advice, the amounts provided at 31 December 2015 represent the best estimate of the expected loss.
Other provisions Amounts provided at 31 December 2015 comprise: $20.0 million provision representing the unavoidable, least net cost of exiting a contract.
The cost is expected to be incurred within thenext 12 months: and $1.4 million provision in respect of redundancy costs, expected to be incurred within the next 12 months.
26 Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the interest bearing bank loans and bonds payable as disclosed in Notes 22 and 23 of these consolidated financial statements, cash andcash equivalents as disclosed in Note 19 of these consolidated financial statements, and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 27, 30 and 31 of these consolidated financial statements and in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
This is further discussed in the Principal risks section of these AnnualReport and Accounts.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares for cash, engage in active portfolio management, or other such restructuring activities as appropriate.
Gearing Ratio Management reviews the capital structure on a continuing basis.
The gearing ratio is defined as net debt divided by equity attributable toequity holders of the Company plus net debt.
At the year-end it was calculated as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Net cash debt see Note 24 354,910 Equity plus net debt 1,294,594 Gearing ratio 27.4 % Significant Accounting Policies Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which the income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the statement of accounting policies.
128 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Financial assets and liabilities Current assets and liabilities Management consider that due to the short term nature of current assets and liabilities, the carrying values equates to their fair value.
Non-current assets and liabilities The carrying value and fair values of non-current financial assets and liabilities are shown in the following tables: As at As at As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 $000 $000 Estimated fair Estimated fair Carrying value value Carrying value value Financial assets: Security deposits 8,904 8,797 17,104 16,899 Financial liabilities: Interest bearing bank loans 153,008 144,539 Bonds payable 106,651 108,400 Financial risk management The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and trade and other payables, interest bearing bank loans and bonds payable, which arise directly from its operations.
Detailsare disclosed in Notes 18 to 23 of these consolidated financial statements.
The main purpose of these financial instruments istomanage short-term cash flow and provide finance for the Groups operations.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of financial risk and the Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee to assist in the identification and evaluation of significant financial risks.
Where appropriate, consultation is sought with an external advisor to determine the appropriate response to identified risks.
The Group does not trade in derivatives for speculative purposes.
The main risks that could adversely affect the Groups financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are commodity, credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risks.
a Commodity Price Risk The Groups policy is to consider oil and gas price hedging when and where it is economically attractive to lock-in prices at levels that protectthe cash flow of the Ophir Energy Group, its business plan and debt related coverage ratios.
All hedging transactions to date have been related directly to expected cash flows and no speculative transactions have been undertaken.
For 2015, the Groups oil production was all sold at prices relative to the spot market.
2015 production was hedged with swaps for 1,200bopd with an average swap price of $103.33 per barrel.
There were no open positions at the end of 2015.
Therefore, the Group hadnoexposure to commodity price risk at 31 December 2015. b Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a third party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of third parties is the aggregate of the carrying value of its security deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and trade and other receivables.
In respect of the Groups trade sales, the Group manages credit risk through dealing with, whenever possible, either international energy companies or state owned companies based in Thailand and Indonesia and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate.
The Group consistently monitors counterparty credit risk.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in these financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at the year-end without taking account of any collateral obtained.
In addition, the Groups operations are typically structured via contractual joint venture arrangements.
As such the Group is reliant on joint venture partners to fundtheir capital or other funding obligations in relation to assets and operations which are not yet cash generative.
The Group closely monitors the risks and maintains a close dialogue with those counterparties considered to be highest risk in this regard.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and as such collateral is not requested nor is it the Groups policy tosecuritise its trade and other receivables.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups experience of bad debts has not beensignificant.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Credit quality of financial assets 1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 A-2 A-2 No default and above and above and below customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2015 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 371,616 239,801 3,111 41 614,569 Trade and other receivables 13,003 13,003 371,616 239,801 3,111 13,044 627,572 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 2,530 6,374 8,904 2,530 6,374 8.904 1 T he equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial assetitself.
1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 A-2 A-2 No default and above and above and below customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2014 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 877,776 47 49 877,872 Trade and other receivables 23,626 23,626 877,776 47 23,675 901,498 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 13,458 3,288 358 17,104 13,458 3,288 358 17,104 1 T he equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial assetitself.
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is managed by limiting the term of deposits to periods of less than twelve months and selecting counterparty financial institutions with reference to long and short-term credit ratings published by Standard & Poors.
c Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate movements through its interest bearing bank loans, bonds payable, cash and cash equivalent deposits and short-term investments, which are at rates fixed to LIBOR.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the Groups exposure to an interest rate movement and is prepared assuming the amount of the net debt outstanding at the balance sheet date were outstanding for the whole year.
For net debt, if interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 would have decreased by $1.8 million 2014: Profit increase $5.9million or increased by $1.8 million 2014: Profit decrease $5.9million respectively.
This is attributable to the Group acquiring the borrowings of Salamander Group in March 2015 as described in Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements.
The sensitivity in 2015 was maintained at 0.5% as interest rate volatilities remain similar to those in the prior period.
130 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information d Foreign currency risk The Group has currency exposures arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and transactions executed incurrencies other than the respective functional currencies.
The Group, with the exception of Ophir Services Pty Ltd, have adopted US Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies as this represents the currency of their primary economic environment as the majority of the Groups funding and expenditure is US Dollars.
OphirServices Pty Ltd has adopted the Australian Dollar as its functional currency.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is managed by holding the majority of its funds in US Dollars, as a natural hedge, with remaining funds being held mainly in Pounds Sterling GBP, Australian Dollars AUD, Euros EUR and Thailand Baht THB to meet commitments in those currencies.
As at 31 December 2015, the Groups predominant exposure to foreign exchange rates related to cash and cash equivalents held in PoundsSterling by companies with US Dollar functional currencies.
At the statement of financial position date, the Groups net debt had the following exposure to GBP, THB and AUD foreign currency that isnot designated in cash flow hedges: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents AUD 1,303 3,858 GBP 4,228 143,743 THB 15,572 OTHER 641 1,016 21,744 148,617 Net Exposure 21,744 148,617 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable possible changes in GBP, AUD and THB against the US Dollar exchange rates with all other variables held constant, of the Groups loss profit before tax and equity due to the foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities.
Loss before tax Equity Higher lower Higher lower 2015 2014 2015 2014 $000 $000 $000 $000 US Dollar to GBP 5% 2014: 5% 1,448 7,059 1,448 7,059 US Dollar to GBP -5% 2014: -5% 1,448 7,059 1,448 7,059 US Dollar to AUD 5% 2014: 5% 72 160 72 160 US Dollar to AUD -5% 2014: -5% 72 160 72 160 US Dollar to THB 5% 901 901 US Dollar to THB -5% 901 901 Significant assumptions used in the foreign currency exposure sensitivity analysis include: Reasonably possible movements in foreign exchange rates were determined based on a review of the last two years historical movements and economic forecasters expectations.
The reasonably possible movement was calculated by taking the US Dollar spot rate as at balance date, moving this spot rate by the reasonably possible movements and then re-converting the US Dollar into the respective foreign currency with the new spot rate.
This methodology reflects the translation methodology undertaken by the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued e Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash and cash equivalents, and borrowing facilities to meet its forecast short, medium and long-term commitments.
The Group continually monitors its actual and forecast cash flows to ensure that there are adequate reserves and banking facilities to meet the maturing profiles of its financial assets and liabilities.
The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturities for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date the Group was required to pay at the balance sheet date.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
As at 31 December 2015 Greater than Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years five years Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Non-interest bearing 93,420 93,420 Variable interest rate instruments 38,727 47,634 47,273 36,106 169,740 Fixed interest rate instruments: Bond payable 149,111 149,111 Total 132,147 47,634 47,273 36,106 149,111 412,271 As at 31 December 2014 Greater than Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years five years Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Non-interest bearing 198,987 198,987 Variable interest rate instruments Fixed interest rate instruments: Bond payable Total 198,987 198,987 Additionally, Notes 34 and 35 of these consolidated financial statements sets out the Groups outstanding financial commitments at the year end.
f Disclosure of fair values The carrying value of security deposits and borrowings are disclosed in the financial statements as at 31 December 2015.
The fair value ofthese assets and liabilities are disclosed in the table of financial assets and liabilities on page 129 of these consolidated financial statements.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1 quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 o ther techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3 t echniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Level 1 108,400 Level 2 Level 3 135,742 16,899 244,142 16,899 There were no transfers between fair value levels during the year.
132 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 27 Share capital Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 a Authorised 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 7,963 7,963 b Called up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.25p each In issue at the beginning of the year 593,810,795 2014: 591,961,422 2,474 2,466 Issued on exercise of share options during the year Nil 2014: 1,849,373 8 1 Issued during the year 152,208,612 2014: Nil 587 In issue at the end of the year 746,019,407 2014: 593,810,795 3,061 2,474 1 1 52,208,612 ordinary shares issued in consideration for the Salamander acquisition on 3 March 2015.
The market value of the Companys shares on this date was: 1.39 $2.14.
The balances classified as called up: allotted and fully paid share capital represents the nominal value of the total number of issued shares of the Company of 0.25p each.
Fully paid shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
28 Investments accounted for using the equity method As at 31 Dec 2015 $000 Company APICO LLC 27.18% APICO Khorat Holdings LLC 27.18% APICO Khorat Limited 27.18% The investments in the jointly controlled entities have been classified as joint ventures under IFRS 11 and therefore the equity method ofaccounting has been used in the consolidated financial statements.
APICO is a limited liability company formed in the State of Delaware, USA.
APICO LLC wholly owns APICO Khorat Holdings LLS a limited liability company formed in the State of Delaware, USA.
APICO Khorat Holding LLC wholly owns APICO Khorat Limited which is a Thai limited company that was incorporated and has its principal place of business in the Kingdom of Thailand.
The Groups primary business purpose is the acquisition, exploration, development and production of petroleum interests in the Kingdom ofThailand.
The Groups share of the results of its joint venture and the Group share of its assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 are shown inthetables below: Results for the period 3 March 2015 to 31 December 2015 $000 Sales and other operating revenues 16,658 Profit before interest and taxation 11,979 Net finance costs 160 Profit before taxation 11,819 Taxation 4,600 Profit for the period 7,219 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued Summarised financial information of APICO LLC Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 $000 Sales and other operating revenues 61,288 Profit before interest and taxation 44,073 Net finance costs 589 Profit before taxation 43,484 Taxation 16,924 Profit for the period 26,560 Group share of assets and liabilities $000 Non-current assets 48,267 Current assets 5,888 Total assets 54,155 Current liabilities 6,562 Non-current liabilities 2,529 Total liabilities 9,091 Net assets 45,064 The following table shows the movement in investments in the jointly controlled entities: Year ended 31 Dec 2015 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year Acquisition of subsidiary Note 10 167,000 Additions 3,941 Impairment 42,117 Share of profit of investments 7,219 Dividends received 5,843 Balance at the end of the year 130,200 29 Treasury shares Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Ordinary shares of 0.25p each held by the Group as treasury shares $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year 14,910,114 2014: nil 59 Acquired during the year 26,114,403 2014: 15,522,066 99 62 Disposed of on exercise of share options during the year 797,379 2014: 611,952 3 3 Balance at the end of the year 40,227,138 2014: 14,910,114 155 59 Treasury shares represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and held by the Company to satisfy options under the Groups employee incentive share option plans refer to Note 33 of these consolidated financial statements.
On 14 August 2014, the Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares the Programme.
During the year, the Company purchased shares under the Programme for a total consideration of $56.1 million 2014: $44.2 million, including costs of $0.3 million 2014: $0.3 million.
The remaining facility as at 31 December 2015 was $nil 2014: $56.1 million.
134 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 30 Reserves As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 $000 $000 Treasury shares Note 29 155 59 Other reserves Note 31 1,646,878 1,695,904 1,646,723 1,695,845 1 Non-controlling interest 280 280 1,646,443 1,695,565 1 The non-controlling interest relates to Dominion Uganda Ltd, where the Group acquired a 95% shareholding during 2012.
31 Other reserves Equity component Foreign Capital Options Consolidon currency Accum- 2 3 4 5 7 Share redemption premium ation Merger convertible translation ulated Total other 1 6 premium reserve reserve reserve reserve bond reserve losses reserves $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 As at 1 January 2014 805,580 43,338 500 1,218,239 669 4,456 397,063 1,674,719 Loss for the period, net of tax 54,846 54,846 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,784 1,784 Total comprehensive loss, net of tax 1,784 54,846 56,630 8 Purchase of own shares 62 44,230 44,168 Exercise of options 1,847 1,847 Share-based payment 6,876 6,876 5 Transfers within reserves 876,447 876,447 As at 1 January 2015 807,427 62 50,214 500 341,792 669 6,240 490,000 1,695,904 Profit for the period, net of tax 322,452 322,452 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 702 702 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 702 322,452 323,154 New ordinary shares issued to third parties 325,545 325,545 8 Purchase of own shares 98 56,109 56,011 Exercise of options Share-based payment 4,594 4,594 As at 31 December 2015 807,427 160 54,808 500 667,337 669 5,538 111,439 1,646,878 1 The share premium account represents the total net proceeds on issue of the Companys shares in excess of their nominal value of 0.25p per share less amounts transferred to any other reserves.
2 The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares transferred following the Companys purchase of them.
3 The option premium reserve represents the cost of share-based payments to Directors, employees and third parties.
4 The consolidation reserve represents a premium on acquisition of a minority interest in a controlled entity.
5 D uring the year the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief s612 and s613 were applied to the Salamander Energy plc acquisition refer to Note 10 of these consolidated financial statements.
The non-statutory premium arising on shares issued by Ophir as consideration has been recognised in the Merger reserve, by virtue of Ophir acquiring in excess of 90% of all classes of the acquirees issued share capital.
I n 2014, following the completion of the Groups farm out of 20% of its interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company redeemed the preference shares that had been acquired by the Company.
This allowed the Company to realise $876.4 million of the Merger Reserve to accumulated profits losses as the redemption of the preference shares was considered tobeperformed with qualifying consideration.
6 T his balance represents the equity component of the convertible bond, net of costs and tax as a result of the separation of the instrument into its debt and equity components.
The bond was converted into 21,661,476 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on 21 May 2008.
7 T he foreign currency translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional currency other than US Dollars.
8 O n 14 August 2014, the Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares the Programme.
During the year, the Group purchased 26,114,403 shares 31 December 2014: 15,522,066 under the Programme for a total consideration of $56.1 million 31 December 2014: $44.2 million, including costs of $0.3 million 31 December 2014: $0.3 million.
The remaining facility as at 31 December 2015 was nil 31 December 2014: $56.1 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Consolidated cash flow analysis The following table shows the reconciliation of the loss profit before tax to cash flows generated from utilised in operations: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Notes $000 $000 Operating activities Loss profit before taxation 376,048 288,493 Adjustments to reconcile profit loss before tax to net cash flows: Gain on farm-out 5b 245 671,677 Interest income 6 1,673 7,049 Interest expense 6 18,348 Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 7,219 Foreign exchange gains losses 6 6,014 12,910 Other financial gains 7 13,719 Impairment of oil and gas properties 126,732 Depreciation and amortisation 5 85,127 1,955 Impairment of goodwill 5e 20,868 Loss profit on disposal of assets 5e 703 2 Provision for employee entitlements 2,105 207 Provision for redundancy costs 2,792 Provision for exiting contract 5e 20,000 Share-based payment expense 5d 4,594 6,876 Exploration expenditure pre licence costs 5c 34,157 23,947 Exploration expenditure written off 5c 148,980 309,835 Impairment of equity accounted investments 42,117 Working capital adjustments Increase decrease in inventories 7,172 Decrease in trade and other payables 52 4,409 Decrease in trade and other receivables 25,343 2,066 Cash generated from utilised in operations 122,084 16,394 33 Share-based compensation a Employee incentive share option plans Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme On 12 May 2004 the Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme was established shortly after the formation of the Company to attract new employees on start up.
The plan provided for a total of 1,450,000 options to acquire ordinary shares at 1p per share to be issued to eligible employees.
The Scheme was terminated on 24 November 2005 and all options issued under the scheme have fully vested.
Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan On 5 April 2006 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Company Limited 2006 Share Option Plan.
Any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Director of the Company or any subsidiary who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time to his duties is eligible to participate under the Plan.
At the grant date the Board of Directors determine the vesting terms, if any, subject to the proviso that no more than one half of the options become exercisable on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant and any performance conditions are satisfied.
Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan On 26 May 2011 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan.
This was introduced to give awards to Directors and senior management subject to outperforming a comparator group of similarly focused oil and gas exploration companies in terms of shareholder return over a three year period.
The Plan awards a number of shares to Directors and senior management based on a multiple of salary.
However, these shares only vest after a three year period and the full award is made onlyifOphir has performed in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies.
136 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Ophir Energy plc 2012 Deferred Share Plan On 19 June 2012 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy plc Deferred Share Plan 2012 DSP.
The plan was introduced to provideexecutive management with a means of retaining and incentivising employees.
The structure of the DSP will enable a portion ofparticipants annual bonuses to be deferred into options to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
All options issued todate vest after a three year period.
The DSP operates in conjunction with the Ophir Energy plc Employee Benefit Trust.
The Trust will hold ordinary shares in the Company forthe benefit of its employees and former employees, which may then be used, on a discretionary basis, to settle the DSP Awards as andwhenthey are exercised.
No shares have been acquired by the Trust.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during theperiod for the above schemes.
These are denominated in Pounds Sterling and have been translated to US Dollars using the closing exchange rate for presentation purposes.
The range of exercise prices for optionsoutstanding at the end of the year was $0.0037 to $8.14 2014: $0.00 to $8.55 with a remaining exercise period in the range ofoneto nine years.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account theterms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31December 2015.
2006 Share Option Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 Deferred Share Plan 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Dividend yield % N A Exercise Price N A $4.29 2.60 0.37c 0.25p nil 0.37c 0.25p nil Share Volatility % N A 50% 50% 41% 50% 50% Risk-free interest rate % N A 1% 0.5% 0.94% 0.5% 1% Expected life of option years N A 210 04 05 03 13 Weighted average share price N A $4.06 2.46 $1.05 0.71 $4.06 2.46 $2.10 1.42 $4.06 2.46 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not be the actual outcome.
b Share-based payments to Directors During the year a total of 1,334,506 2014: 552,522 nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares were granted to Directors under the OphirEnergy Long Term Incentive Plan.
During the year no options were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2015 the Group was committed to making the following future minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases over land and buildings with the following lease termination dates: As at As at 2015 2014 $000 $000 Due within one year 18,909 1,877 Due later than one year but within five years 67,088 8,982 Due later than five years 58,269 4,792 144,266 15,651 35 Capital commitments Exploration In acquiring its oil and gas interests the Group has pledged that various work programmes will be undertaken on each permit interest.
Theexploration commitments in the following table are an estimate of the net cost to the Group of performing these work programmes: As at As at 2015 2014 $000 $000 Due within one year 39,010 63,328 Due later than one year but within two years 30,350 28,600 Due later than two years but within five years 17,680 6,630 87,040 98,558 36 Contingent Liabilities An individual has commenced claims against the Group relating to the evaluation and subsequent disposal of an interest that was held in exploration blocks within the portfolio.
Preliminary court hearings for applications relating to the claims have been held, and, to date, no material rulings have been made.
The Group is awaiting the schedule for the full trials and it is not practicable to state whether any payment obligation may arise.
The Group has taken the view that the actions are without merit and accordingly has estimated that no liability will arise as a result of proceedings and therefore no provision for any liability has been made in these financial statements.
37 Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and material joint operations Subsidiary undertakings A complete list of Ophir Energy plc Group companies at 31 December 2015, and Groups percentage of share capital to the nearest whole number are set out in Appendix A to these consolidated financial statements on pages 158 to 160.
All of these subsidiaries have been included in these consolidated financial statements on pages 99 to 139.
Material joint operations The following joint operations are considered individually material to the Group as at 31 December 2015.
Asset Principal place of business Activity 1 Block R Equatorial Guinea Exploration 2 Block 1 Tanzania Exploration 3 Block 4 Tanzania Exploration 4 Bankanai Kerendan Indonesia Exploration and production 1 This concession is operated by the Group and it has a 80% interest.
2 This concession is operated by BG Group in which the Group has a 20% interest.
3 This concession is operated by BG Group in which the Group has a 20% interest.
4 This concession is operated by the Group and it has a 70% interest.
Capital commitments relating to these projects are included in Note 35 of these consolidated financial statements.
There are no contingent liabilities associated with these projects.
Refer to Note 2.3 l of these consolidated financial statements for the Groups accounting policy for jointly controlled assets and liabilities.
138 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information 38 Related party disclosures a Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries refer to Note 6 of the Company financial statements, joint ventures refer toNote 21 and Note 37 of these consolidated financial statements and its Directors.
Recharges from the Company to subsidiaries in the year were $13,228,862 2014: $25,872,984.
Transactions between the Company and itssubsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
b Other transactions with key management personnel Compensation of key management personnel including Directors is disclosed in Note 9 b of these consolidated financial statements.
39 Events after the reporting period On 1 March 2016, Ophir acquired a 40% non-operated interest in Block 2A, Malaysia, for a consideration of $6.2 million.
On 9 March 2016, the Group acquired a 50% operated interest in Block CI-513, Cote dIvoire, for a consideration of $16.9 million.
