ADDRESS as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement of.. shares on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of the company to be held at 12 noon on 22 July 2015 at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, EC2V 7QR and at any adjournment thereof.
I We would like my our proxy to vote on the resolutions proposed at the meeting as specified below.
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy may vote as he or she sees fit or abstain in relation to any business of the meeting.
On any other business arising at the meeting including any motion to amend a resolution or to adjourn the meeting my our proxy will act at his or her discretion.
Please indicate by ticking the box opposite if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of one or more proxy, please refer to explanatory note 2 below.
Items 1 to 13 are items of ordinary business, items 14 to 17 are items of special business FOR AGAINST WITHHELD RESOLUTION ORDINARY BUSINESS 1 To receive the annual reports and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
3 To declare a final dividend of 26.1p per ordinary share of the company.
4 To elect Mr Neil Carson as a director of the company.
5 To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director of the company.
8 To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director of the company.
9 To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director of the company.
10 To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director of the company.
11 To elect Ms Gill Barr as a director of the company.
12 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
13 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration SPECIAL BUSINESS 14 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To authorise the directors to allot shares in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006.
15 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To disapply statutory pre-emption rights in accordance with Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To authorise the company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued 16 share capital.
17 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To allow any general meeting other than an annual general meeting to be called on 14 days notice To assist with arrangements, if you intend to attend the meeting in person, please place an X in the box opposite.
Date................................................ 2015 In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer duly authorised, stating their capacity e. g. director, company secretary Explanatory notes: 1.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank, your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, may not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The vote withheld option above is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the register of members of the company at 6pm on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
The company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
To be effective, all votes must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the companys registrars at: Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF.
This form is issued only to the addressee s and is specific to the unique designated account printed hereon.
This personalised form is not transferable between different i account holders: or ii uniquely designated accounts.
The company and Capita Asset Services accept no liability for any instruction that does not comply with these conditions.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 73 1st FOLD & 3rd FOLD and TUCK IN BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
RLUB-TBUX-EGUC PXS 1 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham BR3 4ZF 2nd FOLD Officers and OUR BUSINESS professional advisers Today, with an ever expanding number of ways to pay, customers increasingly expect Contents to pay the way they want, wherever they are and at any time.
PayPoint answers that Directors demand by taking the complexity of multi-channel payments and translating it into E Anstee Page convenient, simple, value-added solutions.
G Barr Strategic report N Carson We are an international leader in our field, and a pioneer of a range of payment Highlights 1 G Earle technologies.
We handle over 14 billion in payments annually, for 5,500 clients D Morrison Chairmans statement 2 and merchants.
Our solutions transform payments for everyone from consumers S Rowley to retailers and our clients in utilities, telcos, media, gaming, government and other D Taylor Chief Executives review 3 sectors.
Our services are delivered through our unique combination of local shops, T Watkin-Rees mobile and online distribution channels, both delivered through the businesses we Strategy and business model 5 N Wiles Chairman own and by integrating the best services from more specialised suppliers.
Key performance indicators 8 Non-executive directors Retail networks Review of business 9 Agreed to join on 1 June 2015 We operate branded retail networks across the UK, Ireland and Romania.
Trends and factors on future 13 Company Secretary development In the UK, our growing network already includes terminals in over 27,800 local S Court shops including Co-operative, Spar, McColls, Costcutter, Sainsburys Local, Tesco Express, Risks and uncertainties 14 One Stop, Asda, Londis and thousands of independent stores.
These stores are Environmental matters, employees, 16 Registered office quick and convenient places to make energy meter prepayments, bill payments, social, community and human rights 1 The Boulevard benefit payments, mobile phone top-ups, transport tickets, BBC TV licences, cash Shire Park withdrawals and a range of other transactions.
They are made available to customers Welwyn Garden City Governance by most leading utilities and a range of telecoms and consumer service companies.
Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL Governance 19 United Kingdom Our Romanian network continues to grow profitably.
We have more than 9,200 terminals in local shops across the country, helping people make cash bill payments, Audit committee report 21 money transfers, road tax payments and mobile phone top-ups.
Registered in England and Wales Board of directors 23 number 03581541 In the Republic of Ireland, people use our 500 terminal sites in shops and Credit Unions Directors report 24 for mobile top-ups and bill payments.
Independent auditor Remuneration committee report 26 Deloitte LLP In the UK, Collect, our joint venture with Yodel, offers parcel drop-off and pick-up 2 New Street Square Statement of directors responsibilities 41 services in 5,800 convenience stores.
Customers use Collect to handle parcels from London, EC4A 3BZ major retailers including Amazon, eBay, ASOS, New Look, Boden, John Lewis, Independent auditors report 42 United Kingdom House of Fraser, M&S, Asda Direct and Very.
to the members of PayPoint plc Brokers The UK network also includes over 4,000 LINK branded ATMs, and 9,800 of our Financial statements J. P. Morgan Cazenove terminals enable retailers to accept credit and debit cards.
25 Bank Street Consolidated income statement 45 London, E14 5JP Mobile and Online United Kingdom Consolidated statement 45 Our unique mix of digital payments solutions helps maximise success in a complex of comprehensive income and rapidly changing world.
Every year, PayPoint Mobile and Online handles over Canaccord Genuity 145 million payments for parking, payments and consumer services.
In the UK, Consolidated statement 46 88 Wood Street of financial position Canada, USA, France, Switzerland and Australia, our parking solutions make it easy London, EC2V 7QR for people to pay for parking by mobile increasingly through our own app.
We Consolidated statement 47 United Kingdom also provide electronic parking permits, automatic number plate recognition systems of changes in equity for car parks, and penalty charge notices.
Jefferies Hoare Govett Consolidated cash flow statement 48 Vintners Place Our online payments platform is linked to 16 acquiring banks in the UK, Europe Company statement 49 68 Upper Thames Street and North America.
It delivers secure credit and debit card payments for over 4,600 of financial position online merchants, including Moonpig, WHSmith, London and Zurich Insurance, London, EC4V 3BJ Moneysupermarket.
com, Severn Trent and British Gas.
Our comprehensive suite United Kingdom Company statement 50 of products ranges from our transaction gateway to a bureau service, in which we of changes in equity take the merchants credit risk and manage settlement for them.
We also offer a Registrar Company cash flow statement 50 variety of value-added services such as FraudGuard, an advanced service that mitigates Capita Registrars the risk of fraud in card not present transactions, Cardlock, an innovative solution for The Registry Notes to the financial statements 51 PCI compliance, PayCash through the PayPoint network and Cashier, one of the most 34 Beckenham Road advanced hosted digital payment solutions.
Beckenham Annual general meeting Kent, BR3 4TU As well as this extensive range of services and solutions, we provide the backing of Printed and bound by Empress Litho who are accredited with FSC and ISO international United Kingdom Notice of annual general meeting 67 our 24 7 operations centres, with dual site processing to ensure business continuity.
Little wonder then, that PayPoint is so widely renowned for leadership in payment This document has been printed on 100% FSC certified recycled paper, produced using Form of proxy 73 systems, smart technology and service.
Officers & professional advisers Inside FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the back Our history is one of anticipating clients needs and pioneering solutions to meet tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
cover them ahead of demand.
Our future will be no different.
Every day, we reinforce ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against our competitive edge by developing our range of payments, products and services which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
across the growing multitude of channels delivering best of breed services through Carbon Balancing by the World Land Trust tackles climate change through projects that both our own and our expert supplier capabilities.
offset carbon dioxide CO2 emissions and conserve biodiversity.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 Annual PayPoint plc Report 1 The Boulevard, Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire AL7 1EL United Kingdom For the year ended Tel 44 0 1707 600300 31 March 2015 Fax 44 0 1707 600333 www.
com Simplifying payments for everyone
