THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, tax adviser, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have recently sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in PayPoint plc, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer, so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares as soon as possible.
PayPoint plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2015 annual general meeting of PayPoint plc will be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, EC2V 7QR, on Wednesday, 22 July 2015 at 12 noon.
You will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below.
Resolutions 15, 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
To receive the annual accounts and reports for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 March 2015, other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy, as set out on pages 26 to 40 of the companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
To declare a final dividend of 26.1 pence per ordinary share of the company.
To elect Mr Neil Carson as a director.
To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director.
To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director.
To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director.
To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director.
To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director.
To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director.
To elect Ms Gill Barr as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company at which the accounts are laid.
That the directors are authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 68,045.06 provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot shares or grant rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors under section 1 of the Act are revoked save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That the directors are empowered in accordance with sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash under the authority conferred by resolution 14 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open of fer or other offer of securities to or in favour of i the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date s, and ii the holders of other equity PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 67 securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and b the allotment otherwise than under sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggr egate nominal amount of 10,206.76. and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 14 above, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That subject to, and in accor dance with the companys articles of association and pursuant to section 701 of the Act, the company is authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 1 3 of one penny of the company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased under this authority is 10,199,954: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the nominal value of such share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an or dinary share shall not be more than the higher of: i 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share in the company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d this authority shall expir e on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution: and e the company may make any pur chase of its ordinary shares under a contract concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
All shares purchased shall either: i be cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase: or ii be held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
That any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Susan Court Company Secretary 28 May 2015 Registered Office: 1 The Boulevard Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire AL7 1EL 68 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice for use by shareholders.
To be valid, a proxy must be received by the companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time of the annual general meeting.
Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the annual general meeting and voting in person.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or her behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him or her.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy the proxy form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post to the companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below: or by courier or by hand to Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
and in each case must be received by the company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
You must inform the companys registrar in writing of any termination of the authorities of a proxy.
3 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders to appoint a proxy in paragraphs one and two above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
Nominated Persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the company on matters relating to their investments in the company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment, or instruction, made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of annual general meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedure in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is therefore the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting or any adjournment thereof and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members of the company by 6pm on 20 July 2015 or 6pm on the date being two days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Biographical details of the directors of the company are shown on page 23 of the 2015 annual report.
Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which, in accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the company must cause such questions to be answered.
However no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Information relating to the meeting which the company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
It is possible that, pursuant to members requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the company will be required to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter that the members concerned propose to raise at the meeting relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The company cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections.
The company must forward any such statement to its auditor by the time it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such statement.
The issued share capital of the company as at 28 May 2015 was 68,045,059 ordinary shares of 1 3 pence each, carrying one vote each.
The company holds no treasury shares or unallocated shares for the purpose of employee share schemes, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the company on 28 May 2015 is 68,045,059.
The directors service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company and at the PayPoint office situated at Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1AE during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends Recommendation and voting intentions With respect to resolutions 4 and 11, the board recommends that Neil Carson and Gill Barr be elected as directors.
In both cases this opinion is based on the recommendation of the nomination committee following the external searches that were commissioned.
The board considers that Neil Carson and Gill Barr meet the desired criteria for their respective roles as directors.
With respect to resolutions 5 to 10 inclusive, the Chairman confirms that, based on the performance valuation undertaken during the period, each of the retiring directors performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The board has considered this and recommends that each director who wishes to serve again be proposed for re-election.
This opinion is based on an assessment of each directors relevant knowledge and experience and the conclusion that, in each case, their informed opinions are of significant value and contribute greatly to board discussions.
The directors biographies can be found on page 23 of the 2015 annual report.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole and most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of those shareholders.
Those directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of the resolutions and unanimously recommend that you do so as well.
70 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 Explanatory notes to certain of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting Resolution 2: Directors remuneration report Shareholders are asked to approve the directors remuneration report that appears on pages 26 to 40 other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy, of the annual report and accounts.
This vote is advisory, and the directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on it.
Resolution 14: Directors authority to allot shares By virtue of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the directors require the authority of shareholders of the company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares.
The resolution numbered 14 authorises the directors to make allotments of up to 22,681,686 ordinary shares representing approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 14.
Resolution 15: Authority for disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights By virtue of section 561 of the Act, any issue by the company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing shareholders on a proportional basis requires the consent of shareholders of the company unless the company has obtained their authority under sections 570 and 573 of the Act.
The resolution numbered 15 is for that purpose.
It authorises the directors to allot shares by way of rights issue or pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro rata when the directors consider that it is expedient to do so and also allows them to issue for cash up to 3,402,253 ordinary shares representing approximately five per cent of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document other than on a pre-emptive basis.
Resolution 16: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares By virtue of section 701 of the Act, the company may make market purchases of its own ordinary shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
Under resolution 16, the directors seek to renew an annual authority to make market purchases of shares: each year the directors will seek to further renew this authority at the companys annual general meeting.
Any ordinary shares purchased under this authority would either be i cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase and the number of ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly: ii held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or iii transferred to an employee benefit trust for the satisfaction of awards under the companys existing share schemes.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which could be purchased under this authority is 10,199,954, being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
Any repurchase of ordinary shares carried out by the company would be at a maximum price per ordinary share of 105 per cent.
of the average middle market price of such a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the price equal to the last independent trade or the highest current independent bid and at a minimum price equal to the nominal value.
The authority to repurchase ordinary shares will, if approved by shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the directors and if such exercise would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.
Resolution 17: Authority to allow any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general to be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Further to the implementation of the shareholder rights regulations, the directors seek authority to hold general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on 14 rather than 21 days notice.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire at the companys next annual general meeting, when it is currently intended that a similar resolution will be proposed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 71 72 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
