GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to prepare the group financial statements in financial position and profit or loss of the company and the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the strategic report includes a fair review of the development the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent and performance of the business and the position of the company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair risks and uncertainties that they face: and view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit the annual report and financial statements, taken as a or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 the information necessary for shareholders to assess the requires that directors: companys performance, business model and strategy.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of present information, including accounting policies, in a the board.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Dominic Taylor specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users Chief Executive to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 28 May 2015 events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 41 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PAYPOINT PLC Opinion on financial statements of PayPoint plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company statement of financial position, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated and company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report on page 25 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Consideration of non-current assets held for sale and We obtained managements assessment of the application of IFRS 5 and assessed the status of the planned disposal at 31 March discontinued operations 2015 against the criteria set out in IFRS 5.
Management is required to assess the implications of the planned disposal of the Mobile and Online business M O Our procedures included discussion with management and on the presentation in the group financial statements.
In agreeing project milestones to supporting documentation particular, management is required to take into account the including board minutes and correspondence with advisors.
requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for resale and discontinued operations IFRS 5.
The net assets of We have compared the carrying value of M O to the estimated M O are 55 million as at 31 March 2015, and have been fair value prepared by third party valuation experts.
We also described in note 16 to the financial statements, with the used our internal valuation experts to understand the valuation accounting policy and critical accounting judgement in note 1. methodology applied.
We benchmarked the data used against similar transactions and industry data.
Key judgements relate to the following: In considering whether this represents a separate major line of whether the status of the planned disposal meets the business, we reviewed and challenged managements assessment criteria for M O to be disclosed as a disposal group, in on both the quantitative and qualitative contribution that M O particular whether the sale is considered highly probable as makes to the PayPoint group.
at the year end: ensuring any disposal group is held at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell: and whether M O represents a separate major line of business and should therefore be disclosed as a discontinued operation.
The assessment of carrying value of goodwill and other We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model for PayPoint Romania.
non-current assets Management is required to carry out an annual impairment Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with test which incorporates judgments based on assumptions reference to historical trading performance and forecast future about future profitability, growth rates and discount rates.
The performance, consulting with our valuation specialists on the goodwill in the balance sheet at 31 March 2015, following discount rate used and benchmarking assumptions such as the the classification of M O as a disposal group held for sale, is perpetual growth rate and discount rate to external macro- 7.7 million 2014: 57.9 million, which relates to the groups economic and market data.
The accounting policy, methodology and key assumptions for goodwill impairment is Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions described in note 1 and note 10 to the financial statements.
that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 10 to the financial statements.
42 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PAYPOINT PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition With the assistance of our IT specialists, we tested the effectiveness of Revenues of 218 million have been recognised in the the controls over the relevant computer systems and the revenue and year.
The groups accounting policy for the recognition of agent commission payable cycles.
In addition to this work, we have revenue is described in note 1 to the financial statements, performed the following: and is based on a high volume of low value transactions substantive testing on the manual commission rates input into the calculated using volume data subject to automated computer systems: controls.
The risk of material misstatement relates to areas for all revenue streams, analytical procedures were undertaken: of manual intervention, the most significant being the and manual input of agreed commission rates for the largest any non-routine revenue streams are also substantively tested and clients.
the revenue recognition policies assessed against the criteria of IAS 18.
Taxation We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions in relation to As the group has continued to grow in size and diversify the likelihood of generating future taxable profits to support the into different countries, tax issues facing the group have recognition of deferred tax assets as described in note 14 to the increased in complexity, in particular the judgement financial statements.
We considered those assumptions as well as around the valuation of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax the appropriateness of the tax disclosures.
of 1.1 million 2014: 2.2 million was recognised as an asset at 31 March 2015, with a further 9.2 million not We worked with our tax audit specialists in relation to the recognised 2014: 8.4 million, and is described in note recognition of deferred tax assets and to appraise the likely outcome 14 to the financial statements, with the accounting policy of technical tax treatments.
In addition the VAT position of the group has been the subject of a recent ruling by HMRC, In relation to the recent VAT ruling, we have reviewed rendering certain services partially exempt.
correspondence with the tax authorities and discussed with the groups advisors to understand and assess the impact on the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the audit committee discussed on page 21.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 2.5 million 2014: 2.3 million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit, and below 3% 2014: 3% of equity.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2014: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit As in the prior year, our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work on 13 entities.
Nine of these including the joint venture, Drop and Collect Limited were subject to a full audit, one PayPoint Romania was subject to a statutory audit to 31 December 2014 followed by three months roll forward of specific audit procedures, whilst the remaining three were subject to an audit of specified account balances.
The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups business operations at those locations.
These 13 entities represent the principal business units within the group and account for 99% 2014: 99% of the groups net assets, 99% 2014: 99% of the groups revenue and 99% 2014: 99% of the groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 13 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
The highest materiality applied to an individual trading component was 1.2 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused every year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 43 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PAYPOINT PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or received and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit accounting have not been received from branches not visited by us: or records the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have Governance nothing to report arising from our review.
Statement Our duty to Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: read other information materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or in the annual apparently materially incorrect, based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group report acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 28 May 2015 44 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
