140 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Accounting for contingent consideration in a business Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and combination and scope exemptions for joint ventures associates together the Group are international businesses covering educational courseware, Amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments: assessments and services, and consumer publishing Aggregation of operating segments and reconciliation through its associate interest in Penguin Random of segment assets to entitys assets House.
Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: The company is a public limited company incorporated Key management personnel and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered Amendments to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: o ce is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
Short term receivables and payables The company has its primary listing on the London The adoption of these new pronouncements from Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York 1 January 2015 does not have a material impact on Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments approved for issue by the board of directors on to published standards that are not yet e ective 4 March 2016.
The Group has not early adopted the following new 1.
Accounting policies pronouncements that are not yet e ective: The principal accounting policies applied in the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, e ective for annual preparation of these consolidated financial statements reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. are set out below.
The new standard details the requirements for the classi cation, measurement and recognition of financial a.
Basis of preparation assets and liabilities.
The Group is yet to assess the full These consolidated financial statements have been impact of IFRS 9. prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations e ective for annual reporting periods beginning on as adopted by the European Union EU and with or after 1 January 2018.
The new standard speci es those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to how and when an entity will recognise revenue, and companies reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the requires more detailed disclosure.
Adoption of the accounting standards applicable to the Group there new standard is likely to have an impact on the Group is no di erence between EU-adopted and IASBand management is currently assessing the impact.
IFRS 16 Leases, e ective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements have been beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The new standard prepared under the historical cost convention as details the requirements for the classi cation, modi ed by the revaluation of financial assets and measurement and recognition of lease arrangements.
liabilities including derivative financial instruments Adoption of the new standard is likely to have an impact to fair value through pro t or loss.
on the Group and management is currently assessing the impact.
The prior year financial statements have been restated to re ect the classi cation of FT Group In June 2015 the IASB issued an exposure draft as a discontinued operation.
ED 2015 5 Remeasurement on a Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Availability of a Refund from 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published a fide ned Bene t Plan Proposed Amendments to IAS standards e ective 2015 The following amendments 19 and IFRIC 14.
Management are currently evaluating and interpretations were adopted in 2015: these proposals and although the proposals have not Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Bene ts: fide ned yet been nalised, it should be noted that the current Bene t Plans - Employee Contributions draft, if adopted, may restrict the Groups ability to Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based Payment: recognise a pension asset in respect of pension fide nition of vesting conditions surpluses in its UK fide ned bene t pension plan.
