Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 121 Additional shareholder information Additional information for shareholders The board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, o er any shareholder the right to elect Set out below is other statutory and regulatory to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as information that Pearson is required to disclose in fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
its directors report in compliance with DTR 7.2.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years Amendment to articles of association after it became due for payment will be forfeited and Any amendments to the articles of association of the will then belong to the company, unless the directors company the Articles may be made in accordance with decide otherwise.
the provisions of the Act by way of a special resolution.
If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with Rights attaching to shares the sanction of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are fide ned any part of the assets of the company and he she can in the Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on value assets and determine how the division shall be the companys register of members can choose whether carried out as between the shareholders or di erent his her shares are evidenced by share certi cates classes of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with i. e. in certi cated form or held electronically i. e. the same sanction, transfer the whole or any part of uncerti cated form in CREST the electronic settlement the assets to trustees upon such trusts for the bene t system in the UK.
Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may Voting at general meetings attend any general meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, every shareholder or his her Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the representative who is present at a general meeting company in relation to any general meeting must be has one vote on each resolution, and on a poll, every delivered to the company via its registrars, whether in shareholder whether an individual or a corporation written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before present in person or by proxy shall have one vote the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned for every 25 pence of nominal share capital held.
meeting at which the person named in the appointment A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting is proposes to vote.
decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the The board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a a poll is demanded.
A poll can be demanded by general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred the chairman of the meeting, or by at least three by being a shareholder if he she or any person with an shareholders or their representatives present in person interest in shares has been sent a notice under section and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders 793 of the Act which confers upon public companies the or their representatives present in person having at power to require information with respect to interests in least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, their voting shares and he she or any interested person or by any shareholders or their representatives failed to supply the company with the information present in person holding ordinary shares on which an requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
aggregate sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the The board may also decide, where the relevant total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal AGM voting will again be conducted on a poll, consistent value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend with best practice.
is payable in respect of those default shares and that no Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the board.
The board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable pro ts of the company must be su cient to justify the payment of the relevant dividend.
122 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Additional shareholder information continued Pearson operates an employee bene t trust to hold Variation of rights shares, pending employees becoming entitled to them If at any time the capital of the company is divided into under the companys employee share plans.
There were di erent classes of shares, the special rights attaching 6,704,505 shares held as at 31 December 2015.
The trust to any class may be varied or revoked either: has an independent trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
A dividend waiver i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% operates on the shares held in the trust.
in nominal value of the issued shares of the relevant class or Pearson also operates two nominee shareholding arrangements which hold shares on behalf of ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a employees.
There were 2,871,174 shares held in the separate general meeting of the holders of the shares Sharestore account and 309,841 shares held in the of the relevant class.
Global Nominee account as at 31 December 2015.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously The bene cial owners of shares held in Sharestore conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class are invited to submit voting instructions online at of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, www.
co. uk and Global Nominee participants deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, are invited to submit voting instructions by e-mail to whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital nominee@equiniti.
If no instructions are given by or otherwise as the company may from time to time by the bene cial owner by the date speci ed, the trustees ordinary resolution determine.
holding these shares will not exercise the voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors Transfer of shares The Articles contain the following provisions in relation The board may refuse to register a transfer of a to directors: certi cated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Directors shall be no less than two in number.
company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the certi cated share unless i the instrument of transfer is board shall hold o ce only until the next AGM and shall lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken o ce of the company or any other place decided by the into account in determining the directors or the number board, and is accompanied by the certi cate for the of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
share to which it relates and such other evidence as the The board may from time to time appoint one or more board may reasonably require to show the right of the directors to hold executive o ce with the company for transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only such period subject to the provisions of the Act and one class of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more upon such terms as the board may decide and may than four transferees.
revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
Transfers of uncerti cated shares must be carried out using CREST and the board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerti cated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 123 The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, Signi cant agreements at least one-third of the directors shall retire by rotation The following signi cant agreements contain provisions or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number entitling the counterparties to exercise termination nearest to one-third.
The first directors to retire by or other rights in the event of a change of control of rotation shall be those who wish to retire and not o er the company: themselves for re-election.
Any further directors so to retire shall be those of the other directors subject to Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility retirement by rotation who have been longest in o ce agreement dated August 2014 which matures in August since they were last re-elected but, as between persons 2020 between, amongst others, the company, Barclays who became or were last re-elected on the same day, Bank plc Agent and the banks and financial institutions those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among named therein as lenders the Facility, any such bank themselves be determined by lot.
In addition, any may, upon a change of control of the company, require director who would not otherwise be required to retire its outstanding advances, together with accrued interest shall retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were and any other amounts payable in respect of such last re-elected.
Facility, and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of noti cation to the banks by the Agent.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the board For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the has resolved that all directors should o er themselves company becomes a subsidiary of any other company for re-election annually, in accordance with the Code.
or one or more persons acting either individually or in The company may by ordinary resolution remove any concert, obtains control as fide ned in section 1124 of director before the expiration of his her term of o ce.
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the company.
In addition, the board may terminate an agreement or Shares acquired through the companys employee share arrangement with any director for the provision of his plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no her services to the company.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules Powers of the directors of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
124 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015
