Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 43 Operational risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Testing failure: We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student marking Cross-Pearson team formed to 6 systems with the use of robust quality assurance procedures and establish standards for testing A control breakdown or controls and oversight of contract performance, combined with risk factors, identify any gaps service failure in our our investment in technology, project management and skills against standards and school assessment and development of our people, including software security controls, implement improvements.
quali cations businesses system monitoring, pre-deployment testing, change controls and could result in financial the use of root cause analysis procedures to learn from incidents loss and reputational and prevent recurrence.
In addition to the internal business procedures and controls implemented to ensure we successfully deliver on our contractual commitments, we also seek to develop and maintain good relationships with our customers to minimise risks.
Safety and security: The health and safety policy was updated and released in 2015.
The key health and safety focus 7 Management review processes have been established with will be on executing a three-year Risk to safety and security key leadership groups and incident data is collected every strategy.
We continue to improve due to increasing local six months globally.
risk assessment in the due and global threats.
diligence process with mergers An implementation plan has been developed, with the objective and acquisitions, as well as in our of delivering a pragmatic corporate security function which existing and future operations.
supports our learners and employees within a safe and secure Ongoing engagement with learning and working environment.
Pearson leadership ensures that health and safety is integrated into business agendas.
Security activity will be prioritised based upon an assessment of risk, which is constantly evaluated.
Customer facing E ective project management disciplines are in place to ensure that 2016 will focus on the next tier of 8 systems: enhancements and new products meet the required standards.
priority products and fully Real-time monitoring and reporting of operational performance embedding the quality initiative in Failure to maintain and are used to identify any issues and direct appropriate responses.
Plans include support customer facing more thorough testing, easier services, systems, and The Quality Task Force, established in 2014 to improve customers onboarding and greater access to platforms, including back-to-school experience, is now part of business as usual.
In 2015, self-service, plus more proactive addressing quality issues this initiative delivered signi cant improvements with fewer monitoring and further upgrades and execution on time incidents overall, less unplanned downtime, faster resolution of to the network and security.
of new products and issues, better protection against denial of service attacks.
Other longer-term initiatives are enhancements.
underway to further improve the customer experience.
Safeguarding and We continue to take safeguarding as a fundamental obligation and Activities will focus on continuing to 9 protection: high priority.
address risk in the direct delivery businesses, with a focus on those Failure to adequately There is increased understanding and reporting of safeguarding in less regulated countries.
The protect children and concerns in many of the countries where we deliver services.
implementation of a safeguarding learners, particularly See page 61 in the Social impact section for more on our self assessment tool and incident in our direct delivery relationships with learners and customers.
reporting system will assist in businesses.
Business continuity Previously reported as a component of other risks, this is now being The new business continuity policy 10 new risk : reported as a separate risk to provide greater clarity.
will be implemented in 2016, including additional tools and Failure to have plans in Pearsons business continuity policy has been refreshed in 2015, software to support a standard place or plans are not identifying our exposure and risk as they relate to key products, global approach to business properly executed.
sites, services and supply chain.
This will be implemented in 2016. continuity planning.
Crisis management and Technology incidents are dealt with reactively and proactive technology disaster The new crisis management closure of known disaster recovery gaps is prioritised based recovery plans may framework will be embedded upon the importance of products and systems.
An annual not be comprehensive.
disaster recovery schedule is in place for testing data centres.
The resilience of technology platforms and systems will be further reviewed and improved.
