56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Overview 1.
Sustainability Towards a new strategy Pearson has an active role During 2015 we began a review of our sustainability toplay in nding solutions practice, to ensure that our strategy, activities and reporting e orts: toour global sustainability Re ect best practice in sustainability.
challenges, which isintegral Are t for purpose in a rapidly changing business climate.
to our business strategy Align with current business and stakeholder priorities.
andhow we report on our Match our ambition and business strategy.
Re ect how our business model can link to the UNs most material issues.
Pearson has a broad fide nition of responsible business and has established a set of commitments across a range Sustainability p56-58 1 of social, community and human rights principles to: Ensure that our products and services are inclusive, appropriate in content to the age, location and ability Our values and behaviours p59-60 2 of the learner, and are easy and safe to use and access.
Respect and protect how we use and share data Our relationships p61-63 entrusted to us by learners and our customers.
3 Inform, support and equip colleagues to work collaboratively.
Our planet p63-64 4 Encourage and reward high performance, nurturing talent and creating a culture where all are able to realise their individual potential.
Impact campaigns p65-66 5 Provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees Project Literacy and the learners we serve.
Employee engagement Extend our commitments on labour standards, human Social innovation rights and environmental responsibility to include our p67 6 suppliers and business partners.
This includes a concern across the value chain for ensuring our activities are free from slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human tra cking.
From June 2016 we will report in more detail Provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good in our 2015 Sustainability Report available on citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
com social-impact Deliver against our targets on our response to climate change and to make more e cient use of resources.
Pearson has in place policies to support recognised human rights principles.
These include health and safety, safeguarding, non-discrimination and a right to quality education.
As a founder signatory to the UN Global Compact, we have also made a series of commitments to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO declarations on fundamental principles and rights at work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and to re ect a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The approach weve taken for our sustainability review and the resulting sustainability map are opposite on p57 Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 57 Pearson sustainability review five key phases: Assess Conduct fide ne, Create Devise 1 2 3 4 5 current state materiality ambitions, implementation reporting analysis visions and roadmap strategy goals We have completed a third-party review of policies and This has been reviewed by internal experts and, to date, nearly reporting, a benchmark against competitors and leaders, 40 Pearson executives have been consulted.
This will be as well as internal interviews with Pearson executives.
nalised in 2016 and form part of our sustainability reporting.
A new sustainability map captures our most material issues.
Detailed below is our current thinking: Pearson sustainability map Mission Help people make progress in their lives through access to better learning Alignment Quality Decent work and Reduced Our framework with UN 4 education 8 economic growth 10 inequalities indirectly addresses sustainable the other 14 goals development goals Ambition Be a trusted partner Reach more learners Create the future 12 operate responsibly be inclusive3 ofeducation lead in product innovation 12 3 4 5 Operate responsibly Maximise social impact by reaching Lead in product innovation and Strategic new markets and expanding access excellence to create education that intent to our products meets societys future needs.
Value our learners, Reach more of the people who need Produce products which improve customers and partners a better education the most the way education is delivered Respect and progress Make our products accessible to Advance the skills, competencies, our employees every type of learner and quali cations needed for life and work in the 21st century Promote stewardship in our Consider the a ordability of everyday operations our products in relation to the Empower learners to be type of market and its customers global citizens Actively contribute to the income levels communities where we work Deliver products which give learning outcomes we promise 58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 1.
Sustainability continued Governance Corporate responsibility cannot be separated from our business and reputation.
The reputation and responsibility committee, a formal committee of the board, provides ongoing oversight, scrutiny and challenge across the entire responsible business agenda.
The Pearson executive drives the implementation of business strategy, including our response to the key issues and opportunities we face.
The responsible business leadership council oversees the development and implementation of our responsible business strategy on behalf of the board.
It is chaired by our chief Pearson and the UN sustainable development goals corporate a airs o cer and comprises senior executives In 2015 we joined world leaders at the United Nations from across the global business.
in committing to the UN sustainable development Stakeholders goals SDGs setting out their ambition for a more peaceful and prosperous world.
These goals Public and private sector customers regularly seek represent global challenges that impact education information on how we go about our business, while across the world.
Goal 4 is particularly important many learners and employees want to understand our for Pearson to ensure inclusive and equitable approach to sustainability.
Socially responsible investors quality education and promote lifelong learning and non-governmental organisations look at issues such opportunities for all.
We are playing our part in as supply chain standards and ethics.
contributing to this goal, through contributing Our approach to responsible business is informed educational expertise, knowledge and resources by the priorities and views of our many stakeholders.
to help address these pressing challenges.
A priority for us will be testing our new sustainability We are also working in partnership with others framework with stakeholders as part of a continuing to make a di erence: focus on identifying, engaging and inspiring our priority audiences.
We are supporting Project Everyone an organisation with a simple but mighty ambition to share the global goals with all 7 billion people on the planet We have joined the Global Citizen movement an organisation dedicated to creating change and taking action to address the worlds biggest challenges
