Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 65 5.
Impact campaigns Pearson has changed its approach to community To shape our campaign strategy and focus, we investment.
We believe that we can make more of researched the views of the public, the private sector a di erence to peoples lives through focusing on and literacy charities to understand both the current a small number of campaigns and issues, where landscape and to benchmark awareness of illiteracy working together with others can accelerate the as an urgent issue.
We found that: impact of learning.
a Illiteracy is not viewed as a major global or As the worlds learning company, Pearson has a lot to national issue.
However, when illiteracy is connected o er beyond traditional cash donations we can also to social and economic challenges such as poverty, bring the expertise and enthusiasm of our people, as interest rises well as a wealth of relevant products and services.
b The vast majority of funding is for child literacy This approach also delivers value for the company.
leaving adult, and in particular womens, literacy By getting involved in social campaigns, our employees under-funded can develop new skills, insight and energy and apply c More investment is needed to support families to this to their work at Pearson.
Our social impact help their children develop literacy skills before campaigns also raise Pearsons pro le, di erentiate us, starting school and increase awareness of issues that inhibit access to better learning outcomes.
Based on these insights, Project Literacy re ned its focus and strategy as a five-year campaign dedicated In 2015, our primary focus has been on developing our to building a movement and partnerships that will act agship campaign, Project Literacy.
Alongside this, we together to close the global literacy gap.
have also o ered employees a range of new ways to get involved in worthy causes and their local communities.
Building partnerships Partnerships are critical to the success of Project Literacy.
Our partnership selection Project Literacy process is based on a theory of change developed in Illiteracy remains a huge challenge.
One in ten people collaboration with the Pearson E cacy team and Results for Development R4D, a US non-pro t that worldwide, or over 750 million adults, are illiterate, twothirds of whom are women.
This is a staggering number specialises in monitoring and evaluation for international development programmes.
Engaging employees in social impact We also know that being literate is fundamental to building a world in which everyone has the chance Our people are our best ambassadors and advocates.
One way we support them is to provide opportunities Literacy is an issue where we believe that Pearson can to give time and money to invest in their communities.
make a substantial contribution, but is far from su cient We use Project Literacy as a lever, but we also support on its own.
This is why we launched Project Literacy our employees to make an impact on causes they care a movement with a shared vision to put literacy within about through opportunities to volunteer, donate and everyones reach, unlocking the potential of people, to share their social impact stories.
Over the course of communities and whole economies.
To date, 2015, 30% of employees participated in social impact 40 organisations have joined the campaign.
Project Literacy headlines Celebrities and in uencers supporting the campaign: 969m Richard Branson, Chelsea people reached through Clinton and Piers Morgan media, social reach and Events marked by events Project Literacy: 449,477 World Book Day, Mandela views of Project Literacy Day, International Youth 11,460 articles published by GOOD Day, International Literacy people have sought Magazine, a social purpose Day, UNGA week, volunteering opportunities media company International Human Rights with our Project Literacy Day, and Giving Tuesday partners 66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 5.
Impact campaigns continued The three pillars of our theory of change that guide our partnership investment decisions are: Advancing Innovating Raising awareness and 12 best practice new solutions 3 mobilising action We partner with organisations We partner with organisations We are building a network to implementing proven literacy to design, build and rigorously advocate collectively for greater interventions to help them grow.
test new approaches to tackling investment in and attention to Why?
Because there are some illiteracy.
Because the extent of things that we already know work solutions will be needed to the problem and its potential impact to improve literacy, and we need reach the most marginalised is huge: well need everyone united more of them.
to close the literacy gap.
National Literacy Trust NLT Worldreader Unsigned petition Project Literacy and NLT are Project Literacy and Worldreader are In September 2015, 16 Project partnering together to replicate Early partnering together on a mobile Literacy partners joined forces to Words Together, a targeted literacy technology pilot project in India sign an open letter to world leaders peer education programme for Mobile Reading to Children to meeting at the United Nations families with children aged 2 to 5, empower parents to talk more General Assembly UNGA, calling in 30 schools across the London and read more to their children, on them to make literacy a key part metropolitan area.
As an integral speci cally through the use of mobile of the sustainable development component of the programme, devices.
With the Worldreader mobile agenda.
The letter was published Pearson and community volunteers app, which is available on feature in The New York Times and The are recruited and trained to help phones and smartphones, we will Guardian.
This letter, combined with parents improve their home learning be providing a rich bank of locally the launch of our global Unsigned environment and adopt behaviours relevant content at low cost for Petition, reached 410 million people that support literacy using evidence- 200,000 low-income parents in through social media.
The petition based approaches and materials.
Delhi who have children aged 6 and is our major call to action for 2015 younger.
Additional partners include and 2016, serving as a striking and Results for Development, Center for visual reminder of the global scale Knowledge Societies, Society for All of illiteracy and the 750 million Round Development, Katha, and people worldwide who cannot sign Health and Family Planning for themselves.
Volunteering Giving We now have formal volunteering programmes in place Pearson has teamed up with Kiva, the worlds largest in the US and the UK with Project Literacy partners micro-lending platform, to provide micro-loans to people including Reading Partners, Jumpstart and the National around the world who are locked out of traditional Literacy Trust.
In 2015, our employees volunteered banking systems.
To date, employees have made more over 10,000 hours with 40% of those linked to literacy.
than $600,000 of loans to Kiva entrepreneurs, making For one programme Read for the Record run by Pearson third globally for total amount loaned by a Jumpstart our employees contributed approximately business on Kiva.
1,000 volunteering hours and helped 7,000 children.
In September, we launched a matching gifts campaign Sharing to mark the launch of the Global Goals and Project Literacy presence at UNGA.
Throughout the entire Pearson employees helped inspire others by month, employees across Pearson who gave to charities contributing more than 1,400 stories about literacy received a 4:1 match from Pearson.
The campaign raised volunteering or donating, either on social media or over $430,000.
Over the course of the year, employees on our internal community engagement hub.
