Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 227 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange in the Equiniti o ers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more form of American Depositary Receipts.
information, please go to www.
co. uk dealing Corporate website or call customer services on 0345 300 0430.
The investors section of our corporate website Share dealing facilities www.
com investors provides a wealth Equiniti o ers telephone and internet services for of information for shareholders.
It is also possible dealing in Pearson shares.
For further information, to sign up to receive e-mail alerts for reports and please contact their telephone dealing helpline on press releases relating to Pearson at 03456 037 037 or, for online dealing, log on to www.
You will need your Shareholder information online shareholder reference number as shown on your share certi cate.
Shareholder information can be found on our website www.
com investors A postal dealing service is also available through investor-information.
Please telephone 0371 384 2248 for details or log on to www.
Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your ShareGift holding and nd practical help on transferring shares Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose or updating your details at www.
value makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish For more information, please contact our registrar, to donate them to ShareGift, the share donation Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, charity registered charity number 1052686.
Telephone 0371 384 2233 Further information about ShareGift and the charities or, for those shareholders with hearing di culties, it has supported may be obtained from their website, textphone number 0371 384 2255. www.
org or by contacting them at ShareGift, Information about the Pearson share price PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.
The companys share price can be found on our website American Depositary Receipts ADRs at www.
It also appears in the financial Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock columns of the national press.
Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR 2015 dividends represents one ordinary share.
For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts and dividends, Payment date Amount per share please contact Bank of New York Mellon, Shareholder Interim 11 September 2015 18 pence Correspondence ADR, PO Box 30170, College Station, Final 6 May 2016 34 pence TX 77842-3170, telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within the US or 001 201 680 6825 outside the US.
Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Alternatively, you may e-mail shrrelations@.
com Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be society account, with the tax voucher sent to the exercised through Bank of New York Mellon, and for shareholders registered address.
Equiniti can be bene cial ADR holders and or nominee accounts contacted for information on 0371 384 2043. through your US brokerage institution.
Pearson will le with the Securities and Exchange Commission Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP a Form 20-F.
The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding UK companys shares on the London stock market with public holidays.
For further information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268.
228 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Shareholder information continued Share register fraud: protecting your investment 2016 financial calendar Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly Ex-dividend date 7 April to provide recommendation advice and neither does Record date 8 April it appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, Last date for dividend reinvestment election 14 April our shareholder register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information Annual General Meeting 29 April obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Please Payment date for dividend and share treat any approaches purporting to originate from purchase date for dividend reinvestment 6 May Pearson with caution.
Interim results tbc For more information, please log on to our website at Payment date for interim dividend tbc www.
com investors to be announced during 2016. investor-information.
html Tips on protecting your shares Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation.
Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address.
Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account.
Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.
Reliance on this document assumptions regarding Pearsons present and future business strategies and the environment in which it The intention of this document is to provide will operate in the future.
There are a number of factors information to shareholders and is not designed to be which could cause actual results and developments relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
to di er materially from those expressed or implied Forward-looking statements by these forward-looking statements, including a number of factors outside Pearsons control.
These Except for the historical information contained include international, national and local conditions, herein, the matters discussed in this document as well as competition.
They also include other risks include forward-looking statements.
In particular, detailed from time to time in Pearsons publiclyled all statements that express forecasts, expectations documents and you are advised to read, in particular, and projections with respect to future matters, the risk factors set out in this document.
Any forwardincluding trends in results of operations, margins, looking statements speak only as of the date they are growth rates, overall market trends, the impact made, and Pearson gives no undertaking to update of interest or exchange rates, the availability of forward-looking statements to re ect any changes in nancing, anticipated costs savings and synergies its expectations with regard thereto or any changes to and the execution of Pearsons strategy, are forwardevents, conditions or circumstances on which any such looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statement is based.
No reliance should be placed on statements involve risks and uncertainties because forward-looking statements.
they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in future.
They are based on numerous Designed and Produced by Friend.
com This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger O set which is Print: Pureprint Group FSC certi ed and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the printer are both certi ed to ISO 14001 environmental Illustrations management system and registered to EMAS the eco management Lauren Rolwing, p17 laurenrolwing.
The report was printed using vegetable based inks by Kanae Sato, p55 kanaes.
co. uk Tang Yau Hoong, p125 tangyauhoong.
com Pearson has supported the planting of 137 square metres of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping to remove 5.48 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide generated by the production of this report and associated documents.
