126 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Report on the financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our opinion In our opinion: What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual Pearson plcs consolidated financial statements and report and accounts the annual report, comprise: company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the The consolidated and company balance sheets as at Groups and of the companys a airs as at 31 December 31 December 2015: 2015 and of the Groups pro t and the Groups and the The consolidated income statement and consolidated companys cash ows for the year then ended: statement of comprehensive income for the year then The consolidated financial statements have been ended: properly prepared in accordance with International The consolidated and company cash ow statements Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by and statements of changes in equity for the year then the European Union: ended: and The company financial statements have been properly The notes to the financial statements, which include a prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the summary of signi cant accounting policies and other European Union and as applied in accordance with the explanatory information.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Certain required disclosures have been presented The financial statements have been prepared in elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the accordance with the requirements of the Companies notes to the financial statements.
These are crossAct 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial referenced from the financial statements and are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by The financial reporting framework that has been the IASB applied in the preparation of the financial statements As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by financial statements, as applied in accordance the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 27m, which represents 4% of adjusted pro t before tax as disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements.
Refer to page 130 for further details.
We conducted work in five key territories: US, UK, Brazil, China Materiality and South Africa.
In addition we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information reported by the associate Penguin Random House PRH.
The territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions, shared service centres and consolidated Group level, accounted for Audit scope approximately: 68% of the Groups revenue: 104% of the Groups loss pro t before tax: and 76% of the Groups adjusted pro t before tax.
We focused on: Revenue recognition including risk of fraud Areas of Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets focus Major transactions Provision for uncertain tax liabilities Returns provisions Recoverability of pre-publication assets Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 127 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The risks of material misstatement that had the We conducted our audit in accordance with greatest e ect on our audit, including the allocation International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland of our resources and e ort, are identi ed as areas ISAs UK & Ireland.
of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these speci c areas We designed our audit by determining materiality and in order to provide an opinion on the consolidated assessing the risks of material misstatement in the and company financial statements as a whole.
Any consolidated and company financial statements.
In comments we make on the results of our procedures particular, we looked at where management made should be read in this context.
For each area of focus subjective judgements, for example in respect of below, to the extent relevant, we evaluated the design signi cant accounting estimates that involved making and tested the operating e ectiveness of key internal assumptions and considering future events that are controls over financial reporting set in place by inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also management, including testing the operation of IT addressed the risk of management override of internal systems from which financial information is generated.
controls, including evaluating whether there was Each of the areas of focus below are also referred to in evidence of bias by management that represented the audit committee report on pages 86 and 87 and in a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
the accounting policies on pages 140 and 147.
This is not a complete list of all risks identi ed by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition including risk of fraud Refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial statements Where books are sold together with workbooks delivered later or There are two types of complex contracts that require signi cant companion digital materials available online we assessed the basis judgements and estimates, which could be subject to either for allocation of the purchase price between each element and then accidental errors or deliberate fraud: tested the detailed calculations supporting these revenue deferrals.
We found the revenue deferrals to be based on reasonable estimates Multiple element arrangements, such as the sale of physical of the relative fair value of each element and the methods used to textbooks accompanied by digital content or supplementary calculate the deferrals properly calculated and consistently applied.
workbooks, where revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contractual arrangement requiring the For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and more recent estimation of its relative fair value: and long-term contracts, covering both testing activities and online delivery of teaching, we read the contracts and assessed the Certain long-term contracts that span year end, where revenue accounting methodologies being applied to calculate the proportion is recognised using estimated percentage of completion based of revenue being recognised.
We also tested costs incurred to date on costs.
These include contracts to design, develop and deliver and managements estimates of forecast costs and revenues by testing and accreditation and contracts to secure students and reference to historical experience and current contract status, support the online delivery of their teaching.
including examining correspondence where contracts are These complex contracts generate material deferred revenue and experiencing disputes.
accrued income balances and are areas where misstatements in Our testing showed that revenue recognition practices are in the underlying assumptions or estimation calculations could have accordance with Group policies and related accounting standards a material e ect on the financial statements.
with appropriate methods for calculating the revenue recognised.
In addition there are material shipments towards the period end See our work performed over the returns provisions which includes from major distribution locations giving rise to the potential risk of our work over the risk of cut-o.
128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to note 11 to the consolidated financial statements We obtained managements goodwill impairment model and tested The Group has 4,134m of goodwill and 1,030m of other intangible and agreed the reasonableness of key assumptions, including CGU assets including software, acquired customer lists, contracts and identi cation, operating pro t forecasts, perpetuity growth rates relationships, acquired trademarks and brands and acquired and discount rates.
We tested the mathematical integrity of the publishing rights at 31 December 2015. forecasts and carrying values in managements impairment model and con rmed that managements estimate of each CGUs During the year, the Group recognised an 826m goodwill recoverable amount is appropriately based on the higher of fair impairment charge across six aggregated cash generating units value less cost of disposal and value-in-use.
CGUs : North America 282m : Brazil 269m : China 181m : South Africa 48m : Other Growth 9m : and Core 37m.
In addition, We agreed the forecast cash ows to board-approved budgets performance in speci c businesses also resulted in a 23m and market communications, assessed how these budgets are intangibles impairment charge.
The total impairment charge from compiled and understood key judgements and estimates within these items is 849m.
them, including short-term growth rates, cost allocations and the inclusion of restructuring costs and bene ts in a fair value less cost The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are dependent of disposal model.
on future cash ows of the underlying CGUs and there is risk that if these cash ows do not meet managements expectations the We compared short and long-term growth rates, including cash assets will be impaired.
This risk increases in periods when the conversation, to historical trends and expectations.
We also Groups trading performance and projections do not meet prior considered the accuracy of prior period forecasts.
We used valuations specialists to assess the perpetuity growth The impairment reviews performed by management contain a rate and discount rate for each CGU by comparison to third party number of signi cant judgements and estimates including CGU information, past performance, the Groups cost of capital and identi cation, operating pro t forecasts, cash conversion, perpetuity relevant risk factors.
growth rates and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions We performed our own sensitivity analyses to understand the can result in materially di erent impairment charges or available impact of reasonable changes in the key assumptions.
managements decision to provide additional disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements given that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions could materially impact the impairment charges or available headroom.
We checked for additional impairment triggers by reading board minutes, holding regular discussions with Group and local management, and examining the performance of recently acquired businesses to identify underperforming operations.
We did not identify any further impairments.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge recognised in 2015 was reasonably calculated and recorded at materially appropriate exchange rates.
For those CGUs where management determined that no impairment charge was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures should be given, we consider these judgements to be well supported by reasonable assumptions that would require signi cant downside changes before an impairment charge was necessary.
Major transactions Refer to note 31 to the consolidated financial statements We obtained the sales documents and related contracts and agreed In July 2015 Pearson completed the sale of PowerSchool to Vista the elements of the gain calculations to them.
Equity Partners for cash consideration of 222m, resulting in a net We agreed the cash consideration to bank statements, any retained pre-tax impact of 30m within continuing operations after related investment or assets to the contracts and veri ed the underlying write downs of 70m.
carrying value before disposal to financial records.
We agreed the In October 2015 Pearson completed the first tranche of the sale remeasurement of the retained investment of the Economist to of its 50% stake in The Economist Group to Exor S. p. A. and to fair value implied by the contract.
We reperformed the calculations The Economist Group itself for cash consideration of 377m and for mathematical accuracy, considered the appropriateness of remeasurement of the retained 11% investment of 92m, resulting the disposal costs and related write downs and vouched them in a pre-tax gain on disposal of 473m presented in discontinued to supporting evidence.
We assessed the presentation of each operations.
The Groups remaining 11% investment does not disposed business as continuing or discontinued by reference to constitute signi cant in uence so is being held as an available for its size and nature.
We also considered the related tax judgements sale investment at fair value until the second tranche completes and recoverability of linked pre-publication assets.
In November 2015 Pearson completed the sale of the Financial Times No material misstatements were identi ed by our testing.
We were Group FT to Nikkei Inc. for cash consideration of 858m, resulting satis ed that the presentation of each gain, and the related write in a pre-tax gain on disposal of 711m presented in discontinued downs, was supportable and we found that appropriate disclosures operations.
were included in the annual report.
These amounts are highly material and include judgements in areas such as the write downs related to PowerSchool and the retained investment in The Economist Group.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 129 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for uncertain tax liabilities Refer to notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements We engaged with our tax experts and obtained an understanding of The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the geographical the Groups tax strategy to identify tax risks relating to business and diversity of its businesses.
To assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions we first recalculated the valuation of tax provisions and Management is required to exercise signi cant judgement in determined whether the treatments adopted were in line with the determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of Groups tax policies and had been applied consistently.
potential tax exposures and uncertain tax provisions.
The most signi cant of these relate to US tax.
We then evaluated the key underlying assumptions, particularly in the US and in territories with new cross-border tax structures.
In Changes in assumptions about the views that might be taken by tax doing this we considered the status of recent and current tax authorities can materially impact the level of provisions recorded authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, in the financial statements and there are signi cant judgements in judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimating the amount of any provision required.
estimates including those arising from signi cant disposals, and developments in the tax environment.
We also evaluated the consistency of managements approach to establishing or changing provision estimates.
We were satis ed that managements provision estimates for uncertain tax positions were consistent with our own assessment of the related risks and correspondence with the relevant tax authorities.
Returns provisions Refer to note 22 to the consolidated financial statements We performed testing over returns provisions in a number of There are material, judgemental provisions for anticipated book locations, including US Higher Education.
returns on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015, particularly in We tested the calculation of the provisions, assessing judgements US Higher Education.
for reasonableness against historical experience and the impact As the Group transitions from print to digital the returns pro le will on returns of the ongoing business transition from print to digital.
change with a corresponding impact on returns provisions.
We also performed detailed testing of shipment and returns provisioning.
This included checking cut-o at year end and evaluating whether any changes in shipping volumes around year end might increase the risk of returns.
No misstatements were identi ed.
We evaluated changes in estimates to check they were not indicators of management bias.
We found the estimates used by management in the determination of the returns provisions to appropriately re ect both past experience and changes in the business.
Recoverability of pre-publication assets Refer to note 20 to the consolidated financial statements We first assessed the appropriateness of capitalisation policies and The Group has 841m of pre-publication assets at 31 December then selected a sample of costs deferred to the balance sheet as 2015.
Pre-publication assets represent direct costs incurred in the pre-publication assets to test their magnitude and appropriateness development of education platforms, programmes and titles prior to for capitalisation.
We then assessed the amortisation pro les of pre-publication The PowerSchool disposal caused management to assess the assets against cash ows to test that the existing amortisation carrying value of a series of pre-publication and platform pro les remained appropriate in light of the transition towards investments and consequently record a write down of 70m.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of the carrying We challenged the carrying value of certain pre-publication assets value of these assets: this is further complicated by the transition to where products are yet to be launched, are less proven, or where digital as the Group invests in new, less proven, inter-linked digital sales are lower than originally anticipated.
We assessed forecast content and platforms.
cash ows against historical experience and obtained supporting evidence for managements explanations.
We compared short and long-term growth rates to historical trends and expectations.
We challenged the life of the assets compared to similar Pearson products and found the Groups policies to be appropriate and consistently applied.
While the carrying value of some assets depends on considerable future sales growth, overall we considered the year end carrying values to be reasonable.
130 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued How we tailored our audit scope The reporting units where we performed audit work, We tailored our audit scope to ensure that we together with work performed at corporate functions, performed enough work to be able to give an opinion shared service centres and consolidated Group level, on the financial statements as a whole, taking into accounted for approximately 68% of the Groups account the geographic structure of the Group, the revenue, 104% of the Groups loss before tax and 76% accounting processes and controls, and the industry of the Groups adjusted pro t before tax.
This provided in which the Group operates.
the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
The Group is organised into three reportable segments, being North America, Core and Growth, plus the Materiality The scope of our audit was in uenced by our associate investment in associate Penguin Random application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative House.
Each segment comprises a number of thresholds for materiality.
These, together with reporting units.
The consolidated financial statements qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the comprise these reporting units plus the Groups scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent centralised functions.
of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, the e ect of misstatements, both individually and on we determined the type of work that needed to be the financial statements as a whole.
performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC Based on our professional judgement, we determined UK and from other PwC network rms operating under materiality for the financial statements as a whole our instruction.
Where the work was performed by as follows: component auditors, we determined the level of Overall Group 27m 2014: 26m.
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at materiality those reporting units to be able to conclude whether How we 4% of adjusted pro t before tax of 677m.
su cient appropriate audit evidence had been determinedbit obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated Rationale for Note 8 of the financial statements explains financial statements as a whole.
benchmark that the Groups principal measure of applied performance is adjusted operating pro t During the year members of the Group engagement 723m, which excludes one-o gains team visited each of the US, Brazilian, Chinese and and losses and acquired intangible asset South African component audit teams: held a planning amortisation, in order to present results from meeting attended by partners from the Group operating activities on a consistent basis.
engagement team and our UK and US component From adjusted operating pro t we deducted teams: and had regular dialogue with component net finance costs of 46m see note 8 because these mainly re ect recurring teams throughout the year.
To the resulting adjusted We identi ed two reporting units in the US and UK pro t before tax we then applied 4% rather than the usual 5% as our materiality that required an audit of their complete financial calculation was based on an adjusted information due to their financial signi cance, plus a measure.
further 13 reporting units in the US, UK, Brazil, China Component For each component in our audit scope, we and South Africa that required either an audit or materiality allocated a materiality that is less than our speci ed procedures on certain transactions and overall Group materiality.
We also obtained an audit opinion from PwC materiality allocated across components was Germany on the financial information of the associate between 3m and 24m.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and corporate functions were audited by the Group engagement team.
This included our work over derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, goodwill and intangible assets impairment reviews, litigation, pensions and sharebased payments.
