Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 59 2.
Our values and behaviours Employee engagement Our purpose to improve lives through learning is clear and compelling.
Our organisational structure continues to evolve to better deliver on our business strategy and to position Our focus on e cacy is improving our products and services.
We continue to invest in our single operating model, and in particular in standardising Values and behaviours are critical to our success, systems and a smaller number of global platforms.
but need to be more clearly articulated.
At the same time, we are accelerating our shift and In this time of change, our leaders and managers investment in digital products.
need to communicate more often and more clearly Change can be inspiring but also brings operational risk.
their expectations of working together in a more The link between employee engagement and business joined-up way.
performance is well established, and our 2014 employee engagement survey had some key lessons for us: More work is needed to clarify to employees how our new structure works and how it helps deliver outcomes for learners.
Based on this, we set the following agenda for the work around our values in 2015 and beyond: Priorities in 2015 and beyond Activities in 2015 Many of our leaders have written, spoken or tweeted about our values in 2015, and the Leaders more consistently model values themselves have been integrated into business processes and communication the behaviours required for us to be successful Following consultation and research, we introduced accountable as a fourth value, alongside our current values of brave, imaginative and decent, to provide positive tension and increase our focus on responsibility and delivery We created a clear set of behavioural expectations against each of the values, and Employees see evidence of the values fide ned high, expected and low performance for each behaviour, for all employees as driving the right behaviours across the well as for more senior leaders.
Clear behavioural expectations provide more clarity in organisation terms of what the values look like day-to-day In 2015, we provided much clearer guidance on how to assess values and behaviours People feel safe to speak out and in a performance review challenge where our values are not being lived The values and behaviours were used to help shape the revised Pearson Code of Conduct, with a particular focus on speaking up and challenging behaviour that is not consistent with our values We created and launched a range of simple but powerful toolkits to help leaders, Candidates are attracted to Pearson by managers and teams explore and understand what the values and behaviours look our values, Employee Value Proposition like in their own context and culture Welcome to Pearson, our award-winning global onboarding tool, has been updated to Evidence that our values drive ensure that all new hires are familiar with the values from day one.
We continue to have performance, engagement and high recall of the values, and strong identi cation with them, as evidenced in our 2015 retention of key talent engagement survey see below The 2015 engagement survey found that 89% of employees agree that Pearsons values are important to me even higher than in 2014 84%.
The survey also indicated that behaviour consistent with our values was signi cantly more visible to employees, and that all four values are more prevalent within most parts of our company.
As part of our work on culture, we found that the way Pearsons colleagues treat one another and the values themselves are factors in the decision to join and stay at Pearson.
S T A S R K S E E E M U H G 60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 2.
Our values and behaviours continued Our values Brave Decent Takes bold and decisive action Listens, encourages and to deliver ambitious outcomes respects di erence, treats and champions a culture of all people fairly, with high performance honesty and transparency THE LEARNER Imaginative Accountable Looks beyond their immediate job both inside Drives results by owning and outside of Pearson and the solution, getting the introduces new ways of right people involved and seeing, thinking and working delivering on promises Our behaviours Brave Imaginative Decent Accountable Shows determination Assesses complex issues Is honest, transparent and Takes ownership of and courage in the face from multiple angles and straightforward when own work and drives to of obstacles and setbacks addresses problems that working with others successful completion dont have clear solutions and closure O ers ideas or opinions Builds trusting relationships or outcomes without fear of criticism or with a broad range of Identi es and involves professional risk O ers creative ideas and people inside and outside others to accomplish innovative solutions to Pearson individual and group Sets high standards for own solve problems and address outcomes and others performance Looks for and includes opportunities diverse viewpoints and Follows through Takes a broad perspective talents of others on commitments to identify opportunities and solutions Code of conduct Raising concerns Our values are reinforced by our code of conduct We operate a free, con dential telephone helpline and which covers, among other things, individual conduct, website for anyone who wants to raise a concern and we safeguarding of learners, employee rights and have a clear non-retaliation policy in place to encourage responsibilities, community involvement, the people to share the issues they have.
In 2015, we had environment and our social obligations.
We make sure 119 concerns 112 in 2014 raised through the ethics everyone is aware of the Code and this forms part of the reporting process.
These were investigated and, where onboarding process.
This year, we completed a material possible, the outcome shared with the whistleblower.
review and rewrite of the Code including detailed This year, as in most years, the majority of the concerns additional guidance and case study support.
The Code related to HR practices.
Material concerns raised are was circulated early in 2015 to every Pearson employee reported to the Pearson audit committee.
and they were asked to con rm they had read it, understood it and to a rm that they would comply with it.
Over 99% of employees have signed up to the Code.
