Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 67 6.
Social innovation Lack of access to quality education for low-income and One example is Every Child Learning our partnership marginalised families is a global challenge that impacts with Save the Children.
Our shared vision is to work both developing and developed economies.
together to nd sustainable ways for the education system in Jordan to cope with the in ux of displaced Central to our approach is a belief that commercial Syrian refugee children.
We have donated 500,000 solutions can accelerate access to quality, a ordable to fund the establishment of two Save the Children education, while presenting new business opportunities education centres in Amman, which are supporting for Pearson.
Uncovering, developing and scaling Syrian refugees and host community children 5 to 13 solutions, especially in places where education years old to get a quality education.
We have made standards fall well behind the best in the world, can a further 1m commitment to work jointly with Save require us to challenge the way we think about our the Children to scope, research, design and develop business.
We invest in new technology as well as test new education solutions.
That means going beyond innovative partnerships for our products to reach traditional philanthropy to leverage the full potential these markets.
of Pearsons global operations, networks and people.
Social innovation in practice the Pearson Every Child Learning A ordable Learning Fund Providing education for children in con ict and emergency settings presents many unique challenges.
As the con ict in The Fund launched in 2012 and has a maximum commitment Syria enters its sixth year, over two million Syrian children are level of $65m in capital.
Its ambition is to reach millions of no longer in school and even more are vulnerable to the risks students from low income families by 2020, allowing access of child labour, early marriage and recruitment into militia to high quality a ordable education.
Integral to its approach groups.
To address this critical issue we have joined forces is to set improvements in learning outcomes and marketwith the international organisation Save the Children to based returns as conditions of continued investment.
The launch Every Child Learning.
The three-year partnership Fund has invested in innovative education start-ups in South worth 1.5m will increase educational opportunities for Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, India and the Philippines.
The Fund Syrian refugees and host communities, and innovate new goes far beyond financial backing in that it contributes to solutions to help improve the delivery of education in good governance, and operational support to education emergency and con ict-a ected settings.
The Fund enables innovation from which both Pearson and governments can learn: the cost per student in the schools in the fund portfolio is on par or lower than the per pupil cost in the public sector.
68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015
