Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 63 4.
Our planet Supply chain and partners We believe that we have a responsibility to play our part in protecting the natural resources on which we all depend.
Pearson purchases goods and services valued at around Climate change 1.5bn each year.
This total includes our investment in research and development of new digital products and Pearson maintained our climate neutral status for our services.
directly controlled operations a commitment we first achieved in 2009.
We do this through carbon reduction, Speci c clauses relating to our commitments made purchase of renewable energy, renewable energy under the UN Global Compact are an integral part of our generation at our sites and the purchase of carbon contracts for key suppliers.
These standards include the o sets.
rejection of forced and compulsory labour, a respect for diversity, a minimum age to work on Pearson projects and Highlights of our activities include: compliance with employment laws and regulations.
Pearson retains global certi cation against the Carbon Trust Standard.
We were the second ever organisation This year, we reviewed our approach to franchise to secure the standard which recognises leadership partners and introduced a common contract template in measuring, managing and reducing year-on-year governing our responsibilities on health and safety, carbon emissions.
labour standards, combatting corruption, safeguarding and the environment.
Pearson completed our work to build a carbon footprint analysis tool for our book publishing in the US and UK.
Communities This will help us target the most e ective reductions.
In 2015, our community investment was 10.7m, or 1.5% of We maintained our record of purchasing 100% of the pre-tax pro ts.
In 2014, Pearson adopted a new strategy electricity we use from green power representing over which established increasing literacy rates worldwide as 141,000 MWh of electricity in 2015.
During COP21 in our anchor social impact campaign issue, along with a Paris, Pearson announced that we had signed up to focus on employee engagement in communities.
Read RE100, joining over 50 companies helping build the more on pages 65-66. market for renewable electricity.
We are committed to playing an active role in helping We continue to generate renewable electricity at shape and inform the global debate around education five sites and have 2.6 MW of wind and solar assets and learning policy.
A major milestone this year was the installed.
launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and, Pearson is certi ed against ISO14001, the environmental with others, we successfully advocated for the inclusion of management standard in the UK and Australia.
During education as a core goal.
We also contributed to the debate 2015, Pearson completed the work to become certi ed during the UN General Assembly in September as well as against ISO 50001, the energy management standard.
to Project Everyone to spread the word on the goals.
Our River Street o ces in Hoboken, New Jersey, became We are a board member representing the private sector the latest to secure LEED certi cation, an internationally on the Global Partnership for Education, having been recognised mark of environmental excellence in facilities one of the first companies to join the initiative.
Pearson occupies 840,000 square feet brings together over 50 developing countries, donor in LEED certi ed buildings including our o ces at governments, international organisations, the private 330 Hudson Street in New York.
sector, teachers, and civil society NGO groups to support developing countries with their education sector plans Our approach to managing other materially important through financial assistance and technical expertise: emissions such as embedded carbon dioxide in www.
org purchased raw materials as well as business travel by air are detailed in our 2015 Environment report.
We also believe that the wider private sector has an This will be published in June 2016. important contribution to make in developing education and learning policy.
We helped establish, and continue Targets to support, the Global Business Coalition for Education, helping focus the wider business community on the 25% 100% challenges faced by developing countries to promote reduction in operational To maintain our record of learning: http: gbc-education.
org about-us emissions by the end of purchasing 100% of the 2015, based on a 2009 base electricity we use from year.
Achieved 64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 4.
Our planet continued Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions data Metric tonnes of CO e 2 Calendar year Calendar year Calendar year Calendar year Emissions from: 2014 2015 Intensity ratios: 2014 2015 Combustion of fuel and operation Scopes 1 and 2 tonnes CO e 2 of facilities GHG Protocol scope 1 25,027 22,343 sales revenue millions 26.6 24.8 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scopes 1 and 2 tonnes CO e FTE 3.17 2.70 2 purchased for own use GHG Protocol scope 2 104,715 88,381 Total 129,742 110,724 Carbon emissions The scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions are calculated according to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition together with the latest emission factors from recognised sources including, but not limited to DEFRA, the International Energy Agency, and the US Environmental Protection Agency.
No material scope 1 or scope 2 emissions have been excluded from the reported GHG emissions.
Material use: Forests Signed up to the WWF Save Forests campaign and added our voice for the inclusion of printed material within the When purchasing paper for our books, security and scope of the EU Timber Regulation.
sustainability of supply are very important to us.
Paper use remains a priority environmental issue Hold Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certi cation, allowing books to carry the FSC label for our and we continue to focus on sustainability sourcing and being more e cient in how we use paper.
We: businesses in North America and in the UK.
First adopted and publicly disclosed our environmental Are members of industry bodies dedicated to responsible forest management.
We have been members of the WWF sourcing policy for paper in 2003. forest and trade network for over a decade and are a Collect and map data on the forest of origin, certi cation founder member of PREPS the publishers database for systems applicable and recycled content for the papers responsible environmental paper sourcing which we use we purchase.
Talk about our guidelines with our key paper suppliers Invest in forest-based carbon o sets for any part of our when we meet and as part of our contract negotiations.
climate footprint we cannot reduce or avoid through Discuss our approach to paper purchasing with other means.
Since 2009, this programme has seen over 1,300 hectares of forest protected in Canada, Colombia, customers, environmental groups, investor analysts and other interested stakeholders.
Costa Rica, the US and the UK.
com environment to learn more.
Our performance: Our social impact rankings One way we assess how we are doing as a responsible business is to maintain our position in key indices and benchmarks of social responsibility.
Index year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Global Gold Silver Bronze Bronze Sector Leader Class Class Class Class BITC Corporate Responsibility Index Platinum Platinum Platinum Platinum 95% retained retained Inclusion in FTSE4Good Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Corporate Knights index of the Global 100 Yes Yes most sustainable corporations For the last decade, we have been included in the DJSI World index We welcome feedback on this aspect of the which includes only the top 10% of companies in each industry company as we do on any other.
Please e-mail assessed for sustainability performance.
com with any questions BITC introduced a new rating system in 2015. or ideas you may have.
