Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 133 Responsibilities for the financial statements We test and examine information, using sampling and and the audit other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw Our responsibilities and those of the directors conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing As explained more fully in the statement of directors the e ectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or responsibilities set out on page 120, the directors a combination of both.
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial true and fair view.
information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on and to identify any information that is apparently the financial statements in accordance with applicable materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Standards for Auditors.
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies This report, including the opinions, has been prepared we consider the implications for our report.
for and only for the companys members as a body in Stuart Newman accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Senior Statutory Auditor Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving for and on behalf of  LLP these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors other purpose or to any other person to whom this London report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
4 March 2016 What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements su cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
