Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 211 Notes to the company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements on pages 208 to 221 comprise the separate financial statements of Pearson plc.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, only the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income have been presented.
The company has no employees.
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these company financial statements are the same as those set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements with the addition of the following: Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment, with the exception of certain hedged investments that are held in a foreign currency and revalued at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries All gures in millions 2015 2014 At beginning of year 8,740 8,537 Subscription for share capital in subsidiaries 120 138 Disposals liquidations 444 Impairments 736 Currency revaluations 64 65 At end of year 7,744 8,740 Impairments relate to the carrying value of intermediate holding company investments following impairment reviews, and subsequent impairment of assets, in emerging markets.
Financial risk management The companys financial instruments comprise amounts due to from subsidiary undertakings, cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and current and non-current borrowings.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value, with all other financial instruments held at amortised cost.
The companys approach to the management of financial risks is consistent with the Groups treasury policy, as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The company believes the value of its financial assets to be fully recoverable.
The company designates certain qualifying derivative financial instruments as hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with any change in the fair value of the hedged liability attributable to the hedged risk.
The carrying value of the companys financial instruments is exposed to movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates primarily US dollars.
The company estimates that a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a 93m decrease in the carrying value of its financial instruments, with a 1% decrease in interest rates resulting in a 99m increase in their carrying value.
The company also estimates that a 10% strengthening in sterling would decrease the carrying value of its financial instruments by 182m, while a 10% weakening in the value of sterling would increase the carrying value by 100m.
These increases and decreases in carrying value would be recorded through the income statement.
Sensitivities are calculated using estimation techniques such as discounted cash ow and option valuation models.
Where modelling an interest rate decrease of 1% led to negative interest rates, these points on the yield curve were adjusted to 0%.
