140 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Accounting for contingent consideration in a business Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and combination and scope exemptions for joint ventures associates together the Group are international businesses covering educational courseware, Amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments: assessments and services, and consumer publishing Aggregation of operating segments and reconciliation through its associate interest in Penguin Random of segment assets to entitys assets House.
Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: The company is a public limited company incorporated Key management personnel and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered Amendments to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: o ce is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
Short term receivables and payables The company has its primary listing on the London The adoption of these new pronouncements from Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York 1 January 2015 does not have a material impact on Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements were 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments approved for issue by the board of directors on to published standards that are not yet e ective 4 March 2016.
The Group has not early adopted the following new 1.
Accounting policies pronouncements that are not yet e ective: The principal accounting policies applied in the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, e ective for annual preparation of these consolidated financial statements reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. are set out below.
The new standard details the requirements for the classi cation, measurement and recognition of financial a.
Basis of preparation assets and liabilities.
The Group is yet to assess the full These consolidated financial statements have been impact of IFRS 9. prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations e ective for annual reporting periods beginning on as adopted by the European Union EU and with or after 1 January 2018.
The new standard speci es those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to how and when an entity will recognise revenue, and companies reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the requires more detailed disclosure.
Adoption of the accounting standards applicable to the Group there new standard is likely to have an impact on the Group is no di erence between EU-adopted and IASBand management is currently assessing the impact.
IFRS 16 Leases, e ective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements have been beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The new standard prepared under the historical cost convention as details the requirements for the classi cation, modi ed by the revaluation of financial assets and measurement and recognition of lease arrangements.
liabilities including derivative financial instruments Adoption of the new standard is likely to have an impact to fair value through pro t or loss.
on the Group and management is currently assessing the impact.
The prior year financial statements have been restated to re ect the classi cation of FT Group In June 2015 the IASB issued an exposure draft as a discontinued operation.
ED 2015 5 Remeasurement on a Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Availability of a Refund from 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published a fide ned Bene t Plan Proposed Amendments to IAS standards e ective 2015 The following amendments 19 and IFRIC 14.
Management are currently evaluating and interpretations were adopted in 2015: these proposals and although the proposals have not Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Bene ts: fide ned yet been nalised, it should be noted that the current Bene t Plans - Employee Contributions draft, if adopted, may restrict the Groups ability to Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based Payment: recognise a pension asset in respect of pension fide nition of vesting conditions surpluses in its UK fide ned bene t pension plan.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 141 1.
Accounting policies continued date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identi able net assets a.
Basis of preparation continued acquired is recorded as goodwill.
In addition, the current draft may require certain elements of committed minimum funding See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
contributions to be recognised as a liability on If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the balance sheet.
the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the di erence is recognised directly in 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements the income statement.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting On an  basis, the Group assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree its judgement in the process of applying the Groups either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where Management exercises judgement in determining the assumptions and estimates are signi cant to the classi cation of its investments in its businesses, in line consolidated financial statements, are discussed in with the following: the relevant accounting policies under the following headings and in the notes to the accounts where 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the appropriate: Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Consolidation: Business combinations classi cation returns from its involvement with the entity and has the of investments ability to a ect those returns through its power over Consolidation: Business combinations determination the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the of fair values date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They Intangible assets: Goodwill are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets Taxation 3.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Revenue recognition Transactions with non-controlling interests that do Employee bene ts: Pensions not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as transactions with the owners in b.
Consolidation their capacity as owners.
Any surplus or fide cit arising 1. Business combinations The acquisition method from disposals to a non-controlling interest is recorded of accounting is used to account for business in equity.
For purchases from a non-controlling interest, combinations.
the di erence between consideration paid and the The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair entities in which the Group holds an interest on a longvalue of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent term basis and has rights to the net assets through consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs contractually agreed sharing of control.
Associates are are expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence of the income statement.
but not the power to control the financial and operating Identi able assets and contingent assets acquired and policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of identi able liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in a business combination are measured initially at their in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by fair values at the acquisition date.
The determination the equity method and are initially recognised at the of fair values often requires signi cant judgements fair value of consideration transferred.
and the use of estimates, and, for material acquisitions, The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates the fair value of the acquired intangible assets is post-acquisition pro ts or losses is recognised in the determined by an independent valuer.
The excess of income statement and its share of post-acquisition the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonmovements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition 142 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange di erences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, b.
Consolidation continued and of borrowings and other currency instruments The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates designated as hedges of such investments, are taken results is recognised as a component of operating pro t to shareholders equity.
The Group treats speci c interas these operations form part of the core publishing company loan balances, which are not intended to be business of the Group and are an integral part of repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net existing wholly-owned businesses.
When a foreign operation is sold, such post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the exchange di erences are recognised in the income carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate, The principal overseas currency for the Group is the the Group does not recognise further losses unless the US dollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling Group has incurred obligations or made payments on was $1.53 2014: $1.65 and the year end rate was $1.47 behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint d. Property, plant and equipment venture The gain or loss resulting from the contribution Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical or sale of a subsidiary to an associate or a joint venture cost less depreciation.
Cost includes the original is recognised in full.
Where such transactions do not purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to involve cash consideration, signi cant judgements and bringing the asset to its working condition for intended estimates are used in determining the fair values of the use.
Depreciation on other consideration received.
assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their c. Foreign currency translation estimated useful lives as follows: 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Buildings freehold : 2050 years entities are measured using the currency of the primary Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial Plant and equipment: 310 years statements are presented in sterling, which is the The assets residual values and useful lives are companys functional and presentation currency.
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency sheet date.
transactions are translated into the functional currency The carrying value of an asset is written down to its using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of e. Intangible assets monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on currencies are recognised in the income statement, or after 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess except when deferred in equity as qualifying net of the consideration transferred, the amount of any investment hedges.
non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity 3.
Group companies The results and financial position interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the of all Group companies that have a functional currency identi able net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of di erent from the presentation currency are translated subsidiaries made from the date of transition to IFRS to into the presentation currency as follows: 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the at the date of the balance sheet Groups share of the net identi able assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in ii Income and expenses are translated at average intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates exchange rates and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of iii All resulting exchange di erences are recognised as an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share a separate component of equity.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 143 1.
Accounting policies continued capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired in material e. Intangible assets continued business combinations are capitalised at their fair value of the net identi able assets acquired.
Goodwill on as determined by an independent valuer.
Intangible acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives in investments in associates and joint ventures.
of between two and 20 years, using an amortisation Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and method that re ects the pattern of their consumption.
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that represent direct costs incurred in the development the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the recoverable of educational programmes and titles prior to their amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair publication.
These costs are recognised as current value less costs of disposal and value in use.
These intangible assets where the title will generate probable calculations require the use of estimates and signi cant future economic bene ts and costs can be measured management judgement.
A description of the key reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11. publication of the title over estimated economic lives Goodwill is allocated to aggregated cash-generating of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion allocation is made to those aggregated cash-generating of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
units that are expected to bene t from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as part of cash generated from operations Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the in the cash ow statement see note 32. carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied assets and the determination of the amortisation retrospectively to business combinations before the pro le involve a signi cant degree of judgement based date of transition to IFRS.
on historical trends and management estimation of 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for future potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation pro le internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired could result in excess amounts being carried forward in material business combinations is capitalised at its as intangible assets that would otherwise have been fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
written o to the income statement in an earlier period.
Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis Reviews are performed regularly to estimate over its estimated useful life of between three and recoverability of pre-publication assets.
amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20.
Internally developed software Internal and external f. Other financial assets costs incurred during the preliminary stage of Other financial assets, designated as available for sale developing computer software for internal use are investments, are non-derivative financial assets expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the fair incurred to develop computer software for internal value are recorded in equity in the fair value reserve.
use during the application development stage are On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair capitalised if the Group expects economic bene ts value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
Capitalisation in the application development stage begins once the Group can reliably g. Inventories measure the expenditure attributable to the software Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net development and has demonstrated its intention to realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in complete and use the software.
Internally developed first out FIFO method.
The cost of nished goods software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
labour, other direct costs and related production overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling 4.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated include customer lists, contracts and relationships, costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made trademarks and brands, publishing rights, content, for slow moving and obsolete stock.
These assets are 144 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any h. Royalty advances consideration received, net of any directly attributable Advances of royalties to authors are included within transaction costs and the related income tax e ects, is trade and other receivables when the advance is paid included in equity attributable to the companys equity less any provision required to adjust the advance to holders.
The realisable value of royalty advances relies on a degree of management judgement k. Borrowings in determining the pro tability of individual author Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse e ect Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost on operating pro ts as these excess amounts will be with any di erence between the proceeds net of written o. transaction costs and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an of the borrowings using the e ective interest method.
annual detailed management review of the age of the Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
advance, the future sales projections for new authors Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging and prior sales history of repeat authors.
relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted value in the income statement to re ect the hedged or e ective royalty rate as the related revenues are risk.
Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income earned.
Royalty advances which will be consumed statement as incurred.
within one year are held in current assets.
Royalty l. Derivative financial instruments advances which will be consumed after one year are Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured held in non-current assets.
at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives i.
Cash and cash equivalents is determined by using market data and the use of Cash and cash equivalents in the cash ow statement established estimation techniques such as discounted include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, cash ow and option valuation models.
The Group other short-term highly liquid investments with designates certain of the derivative instruments within original maturities of three months or less, and bank its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
foreign operations net investment hedges.
Short-term deposits and marketable securities with Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are maturities of greater than three months do not qualify designated and qualify as fair value hedges are as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these recorded in the income statement, together with financial instruments are classi ed as cash ows from any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or nancing activities in the cash ow statement where liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
these amounts are used to o set the borrowings of The e ective portion of changes in the fair value the Group or as cash ows from investing activities of derivatives that are designated and qualify as where these amounts are held to generate an net investment hedges are recognised in other investment return.
Share capital in equity are included in the income statement when Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity.
the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ine ective portion are Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue recognised immediately in finance income or finance of new shares or options are shown in equity as a costs in the income statement.
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated Where any Group company purchases the companys as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classi ed equity share capital treasury shares the consideration at fair value and any movement in their fair value is paid, including any directly attributable incremental recognised immediately in e finance income or nanc costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity costs in the income statement.
attributable to the companys equity holders until the Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 145 1.
Accounting policies continued n. Employee bene ts 1.
Pensions The retirement bene t asset and obligation m. Taxation recognised in the balance sheet represents the net of Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation and be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the The fide ned bene t obligation is calculated annually by balance sheet date.
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method.
The present value of the fide ned bene t method, on temporary di erences arising between obligation is determined by discounting estimated the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying future cash ows using yields on high quality corporate amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively terms of the related liability.
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to When the calculation results in a potential asset, the apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or recognition of that asset is limited to the asset ceiling the deferred income tax liability is settled.
that is the present value of any economic bene ts Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent available in the form of refunds from the plan or a that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be reduction in future contributions.
Management uses available against which the temporary di erences judgement to determine the level of refunds available can be utilised.
from the plan in recognising an asset.
Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the The determination of the pension cost and fide ned undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than bene t obligation of the Groups fide ned bene t where it is intended that those undistributed earnings pension schemes depends on the selection of certain will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
assumptions, which include the discount rate, in ation rate, salary growth and longevity.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience items charged or credited directly to equity or other adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
income in the period in which they arise.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous The service cost, representing bene ts accruing over jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in the year, is included in the income statement as an determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide operating cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying provision for income taxes.
There are many the discount rate to the net fide ned bene t obligation transactions and calculations for which the ultimate and is presented as finance costs or finance income.
tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary Obligations for contributions to fide ned contribution course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities pension plans are recognised as an operating expense for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of in the income statement as incurred.
whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is di erent from the 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected amounts that were initially recorded, such di erences costs of post-retirement medical and life assurance will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions bene ts are accrued over the period of employment, in the period in which such determination is made.
using a similar accounting methodology as for fide ned bene t pension obligations.
The liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management and costs relating to signi cant other post-retirement judgement in determining the amounts to be obligations are assessed annually by independent recognised.
In particular, signi cant judgement is used quali ed actuaries.
when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income together with any future tax planning strategies.
146 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services n. Employee bene ts continued net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and after 3.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or eliminating sales within the Group.
shares granted under the Groups share and option plans is recognised as an employee expense after Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when title taking into account the Groups best estimate of the passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made number of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is based primarily on historical return rates.
If these measured at the date of grant and is spread over the estimates do not re ect actual returns in future periods vesting period of the option or share.
The fair value of then revenues could be understated or overstated for the options granted is measured using an option model a particular period.
that is most appropriate to the award.
The fair value Revenue from the sale of othe-shelf software is of shares awarded is measured using the share price recognised on delivery or on installation of the software at the date of grant unless another method is more where that is a condition of the contract.
Any proceeds received are credited to circumstances, where installation is complex, revenue share capital and share premium when the options is recognised when the customer has completed their are exercised.
Provisions under a term licence, revenue is recognised on a Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present straight-line basis over the period of the license.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past Revenue from the provision of services to academic events, it is more likely than not that an out ow of institutions, such as programme development, student resources will be required to settle the obligation acquisition, education technology and student support and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions services, is recognised as performance occurs.
are discounted to present value where the e ect is material.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, such as contracts to process qualifying tests for The Group recognises a provision for deferred individual professions and government departments, consideration at fair value.
Where this is contingent is recognised as performance occurs.
The assumptions, on future performance or a future event, judgement risks, and uncertainties inherent to long-term contract is exercised in establishing the fair value.
accounting can a ect the amounts and timing of The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of contracts when the expected bene ts to be derived these arrangements, either as a result of a single from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs service spanning more than one reporting period or of meeting the obligations under the contract.
where the contract requires the provision of a number of services that together constitute a single project, are The provision is based on the present value of future treated as long-term contracts with revenue recognised payments for surplus leased properties under nonon a percentage of completion basis.
Percentage of cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subcompletion is calculated on a cost basis using the leasing income.
proportion of the total estimated costs incurred to date.
p. Revenue recognition Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in The Groups revenue streams are courseware, which the loss first becomes foreseeable.
Courseware includes losses are determined to be the amount by which curriculum materials provided in book form and or estimated total costs of the contract exceed the via access to digital content.
Assessments includes estimated total revenues that will be generated.
test development, processing and scoring services Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or provided to governments, educational institutions, more separate elements that can be provided to corporations and professional bodies.
Services includes customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an the operation of schools, colleges and universities, optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary including sistemas in Brazil and English language materials or online access with textbooks and multiple teaching centres around the world as well as the deliverables within testing or service contracts, revenue provision of online learning services in partnership is recognised for each element as if it were an individual with universities and other academic institutions.
