Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our social impact 61 3.
Our relationships Learners and customers Our people Our primary responsibility to learners is to ensure that Highlights during the year include: every product or service we sell can be measured by Reinforcing our single global approach to performance what it helps them to achieve.
It is also the primary assessment.
Introduced in 2014 and re ned in 2015, this contribution we can make to society.
Our section on is designed to help our employees agree expectations e cacy describes the commitments and progress we for the year and to motivate people to act consistently have made.
with our values and business strategy.
Last year, we adopted the Pearson product lifecycle A continuing commitment to internal learning and framework for managing our products, services and development.
Pearson has a single global platform Milo platforms.
This introduced a uni ed product strategy for learning and development.
Employees completed that brought a single global approach to shape how approximately 200,000 courses relevant to employee we invest, develop, market and deliver our products.
Through Milo, we delivered We have identi ed a number of priority products for a global employee induction module called Welcome investment, selected for their potential to generate to Pearson and a suite of management modules on the most business value and deliver the greatest ways of working.
Employees and managers use Milo to learner outcomes at scale.
These are the focus of our record their individual goals, monitor their progress, commitments.
Our products are increasingly digital, and assess their performance.
Pearson also began the o ering opportunities to tailor and personalise learning implementation of a single global recruitment process, around individual needs.
At the same time, many people which will allow all employees access to job openings have concerns over the security and privacy of data.
around the world and introduces a consistent approach We have established a governance body within Pearson to internal movement.
to oversee our global approach to these issues.
Ensuring our employees and the learners we serve are Product development is part of a wider approach to safe, resilient and productive.
Our goal is to achieve zero better understanding product and customer experience.
harm for our employees, contractors and learners, Last year, we introduced the Net Promoter Score NPS working to prevent incidents before they occur.
This is one of the most recognised we launched a revised Global Health & Safety Policy methods of measuring customer loyalty and to date over which included 39 minimum performance standards for 150,000 of our customers have shared their comments.
implementation at all of our locations in the world.
In Corporately, we have also invested in a brand tracker June 2015, Pearson secured the RoSPA Bronze Award for seeking the views of learners, parents and educators on health and safety performance for our global operations.
Pearson in our largest markets.
A health and safety strategic plan is in place for 2015-17 with 11 focus areas, each with clear accountability and One area in which we can do more is to integrate our measures of performance.
approach to managing customer relationships.
We are now implementing a single global platform Salesforce Helping employees understand how we are doing as a for our marketing, sales and service functions.
Starting company, including how world and sector trends might with our businesses in South Africa and the Higher a ect them and their business.
We provide Education sales teams in the United States, we will be comprehensive and relevant information on our adding new markets, geographies and capabilities in performance including presentations, small group 2016.
A single customer view will help improve our discussions, messages and webinars.
Senior leaders also responsiveness to customer needs.
use technology to reach all areas of Pearson, through initiatives such as virtual town halls.
The chief executive As we grow through operating and owning learning hosts a regular call to update all employees on strategy institutions, we have new responsibilities to safeguard and to share new innovations from across the company.
and protect learners through providing a safe, ageIn the UK, we have set up an employee engagement appropriate learning environment, whether in a group involving members elected by sta as well as classroom or online.
Our new head of safeguarding has trade union representatives.
spearheaded our work in this area through assigning local business leads, establishing common reporting frameworks, launching a new safeguarding online learning module and training strategy, as well as piloting a new approach to incident prevention.
62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 3.
Our relationships continued Diversity and inclusion In the UK, we are members of the Stonewall Diversity Champions programme and participate in the Stonewall At Pearson, we value the power of di erence.
It drives Workplace Equality Index, benchmarking how we perform innovation, productivity and engagement, helping create a as an LGBT-friendly employer against over 400 UK culture of opportunity, where every employee and learner organisations.
In the United States, Pearson again is valued.
Thats why were committed to ensuring that the recorded a perfect score of 100% in the 2015 Corporate core principles of diversity and inclusion are embedded Equality Index run by LGBT advocacy organisation, across our entire business, so that we re ect our the Human Rights Campaign.
customers and learners, and where our people can be themselves and contribute fully to our mission to improve We have involved over 3,000 employees in global employee resources groups.
Networks include Women lives through learning.
in Learning and Leadership WILL which currently has The three pillars of our approach are: 15 chapters, Pearson Spectrum for LGBT colleagues and allies, Pearson Parents, Pearson Able for colleagues with Equality Diversity Inclusion disabilities and accessibility advocates, Pearson Veterans for military families and veterans, and the Pearson Latino Champion fair Celebrate what Create a single treatment, makes us di erent, global working Network, dedicated to addressing the needs of Hispanic respect and equal our individual and environment and and Latino employees and learners.
opportunity for organisational culture, where all all our people.
culture, work our people can Disability is an important part of our wider commitment styles, values, bring their full to diversity and inclusion.
We work to ensure that beliefs, selves to work, appropriate procedures, training and support are in experiences, are valued for their place for people with disabilities to ensure fair access to backgrounds, di erences and career and progression opportunities.
Our Able network preferences and can contribute fully of employees will help us improve practice.
We are committed to attracting, retaining, engaging and Women in Pearson % developing the best people.
We know that creating and Board of directors Senior leadership All employees sustaining an inclusive work environment is critically 30% important from the boardroom down, regardless of race, 33% 34% 59% as at gender, gender identity or reassignment, age, disability, 2015 1.1.
30% 2014 35% 2014 58% 2014 Highlights of our activities include: 22% 2013 31% 2013 57% 2013 We have 30% female board members, ahead of the 25% by 2015 target set by Lord Davies for the UKs Two reporting lines from chief executive 350 largest companies.
All employees number We remain an enthusiastic member of the 30% Club which Board of directors Senior leadership All employees brings together chairs and CEOs to work together on 7 gender balance.
We participate in their cross-company 6 68 16,781 as at mentoring programme which helps the development of men 1.1.
16 men men talented mid-career women.
3 35 24,260 Raising awareness about the impact of unconscious bias women women women on key people management decisions.
To date, over 4,000 Two reporting lines from chief executive employees have completed our interactive training on Derived from HR systems and includes the FT the topic.
