Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 131 We agreed with the audit committee that we would As noted in the directors statement, the directors have report to them misstatements identi ed during our concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going audit above 2m 2014: 2m as well as misstatements concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
below that amount that, in our view, warranted The going concern basis presumes that the Group reporting for qualitative reasons.
and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required so, for at least one year from the date the financial to review the directors statement, set out on page 118, statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report concluded that the directors use of the going concern having performed our review.
However, because not all future Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report events or conditions can be predicted, these to you if we have anything material to add or to draw statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and attention to in relation to the directors statement companys ability to continue as a going concern.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the strategic report and the report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the Governance Report set out on pages 69 to 93 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The explanation given by the directors on page 119, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as to why the annual report does not exceptions to report.
include a statement that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on pages 82 to 87, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no Code, describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters exceptions to report.
communicated by us to the audit committee.
132 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten thebsolvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors con rmation on pages 40 and 118 of the annual report, in accordance with We have nothing provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal material to add or to risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future draw attention to.
The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing being managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
The directors explanation on pages 40 and 118 of the annual report, in accordance with We have nothing provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over material to add or to what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and draw attention to.
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors remuneration directors statement that they have carried out a robust Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors the directors statement in relation to the longer-term remuneration report to be audited has been properly viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. in scope than an audit and only consisted of making Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the inquiries and considering the directors process Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you supporting their statements: checking that the if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors statements are in alignment with the relevant remuneration speci ed by law are not made.
We have provisions of the Code: and considering whether the no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have Corporate governance statement nothing to report having performed our review.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance Adequacy of accounting records and information statement has not been prepared by the company.
andbexplanations received We have no exceptions to report arising from this Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to responsibility.
report to you if, in our opinion: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the We have not received all the information and part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating explanations we require for our audit: or to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the to report having performed our review.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
