Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The current Directors who are listed on pages 44 and 45 are Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance applicable law and regulations.
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the corporate and financial information included on the Companys law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial inother jurisdictions.
statements on the same basis.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial of the annual financial report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view arerequired to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation select suitable accounting policies and then apply taken as a whole: and them consistently: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and prudent: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as state whether they have been prepared in accordance with a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Parent Company will continue in business.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 22 February 2016 the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Persimmon Plc 72 Annual Report December 2015
