Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 27 Overview | Strategy | Performance What we did in 2015 Future plans Optimised store rollout Target UK portfolio is 500 Pets at Home stores.
Opened 25 new stores We will continue to open new stores in optimal Total portfolio of 400 stores locations that are not currently served by Average new store retail space 15% smaller Pets at Home.
than our average Of new store openings, 60% had mezzanines, Trialling new formats, such as Barkers, our optimising our space utilisation dog focused, premium High Street offering.
Vet practice and Groom Room rollout Target UK portfolio of 700 vet practices, Opened 61 new vet practices, 53 in-stores comprised of 450 in-stores and 250 and 8 standalone standalones.
32 were retrofits to existing stores Total vet practice portfolio of 338 practices We are assessing the opportunity for additional 53% of stores have a vet practice veterinary service segments, for example, Opened 50 new Groom Rooms our recent acquisition of Northwest Surgeons, 26 were retrofits to existing stores a specialist referral clinic.
Total portfolio of 179 Groom Rooms 44% of stores have a grooming salon Target UK portfolio of 350 Groom Room salons.
We aim to open every new store with both a vet and grooming salon and retrofit services back into the existing estate.
Relevant KPIs 53 25 new in-store new stores vet practices 8 50 new standalone new grooming vet practices salons KPIs page 34 Key risks associated Brand and reputation Competition Our people Store and services expansion Liquidity and credit risk Risk management page 44 Pets at Home Group Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy in action Grow margins We are focused on long term, sustainable margin growth.
We take great pride in what we do and the energy we put into it sustains our success.
Read more over the page Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 29 Overview | Strategy | Performance Pets at Home Group Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy explained: Grow margins High quality private labels and own brands give us a unique product offering We are improving margins by generating the right balance between product categories, own brands and private labels, and growing our relatively immature pet services business.
Strategy in action Wainwrights Advanced Nutrition is our flagship private label brand Higher margin Advanced Nutrition and private label products are an important contributor to gross margin We launched Wainwrights, our private The success of the brand can be attributed label Advanced Nutrition brand, in 2007. to the attractive branding and high quality It has grown to become one of the largest product, sold at a competitive price in the Advanced Nutrition brands in the UK, now Advanced Nutrition segment.
Continual generating revenues of 40.1m, which innovation and range additions have represents 11% of our total pet food allowed us to attract additional customers, sales.
Since launch, Wainwrights has and provide greater choice and add-ons grown at a CAGR of over 30% for the past for existing customers.
three years and our wide range covers dog, cat and puppy: wet and dry complete Recent additions to the range this year food: and treats.
have included Wainwrights Grain Free for cats, which has been very popular with customers.
We will continue to grow and expand the range in the coming year.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 31 Overview | Strategy | Performance What we did in 2015 Future plans Product mix and own brands Generate the right balance between high margin 43% of store revenues are own brand and lower margin products by maintaining the private label, up from 42% last year participation of own brands and private labels, Advanced Nutrition revenues grew by with a focus on Advanced Nutrition food.
Our 17.2% flagship brand, Wainwrights Advanced Nutrition, Participation of Food revenues at provides an opportunity to enhance both 40% compared with 38% in the prior year revenues and margins.
Wainwrights revenues grew by 44.1% to 40.1m Services Continue to rollout new vet practices and Services gross margin expanded grooming salons, which generate a higher by 630 bps to reach 32.6% operating margin than the Group.
As these Synergies of 2.6m achieved from pet services mature, margin leverage translates Vets4Pets acquisition into support to Group profitability.
Fee income from Joint Venture vet practices up 30.7% to 28.2m Sourcing and terms Build closer relationships with suppliers and Refreshed 1,300 own brands or private improve contractual terms, improve product label products during the year, with many quality and access innovative new products.
sourced via Pets at Home Asia Continue to leverage our dedicated sourcing Terms and working capital efficiencies office in Hong Kong, Pets at Home Asia, progressing in-line with our expectations to develop relationships with existing and new suppliers overseas.
Improve buying terms by driving economies through increased quantities, providing financial support for TV and marketing campaigns and negotiating on working capital terms.
Relevant KPIs 56.3% 16.6% 54.2% 32.6% Merchandise underlying Group gross Services margin, gross margin, EBITDA margin, margin, 630bps 19bps 0bps 40bps KPIs page 35 Key risks associated Brand and reputation Treasury and financial risk Competition Store and services expansion Supply chain sourcing Risk management Regulatory and compliance page 44
