122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 1 Corporate information flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its eliminated in full on consolidation.
subsidiaries collectively, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss Directors on 23 February 2016. of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Petrofac Limited the Company is a limited liability company registered If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related and domiciled in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other and is the holding company for the international group of Petrofac components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in subsidiaries.
The Companys 31 December 2015 financial statements profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The Groups principal activity is the Presentation of results provision of services to the oil and gas production and processing Petrofac presents its results in the income statement to identify industry.
separately the contribution of impairments, certain re-measurements, Information on the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures is contained in restructuring and redundancy costs, contract migration costs and note 32 to these consolidated financial statements.
Information on other material deferred tax movements arising due to foreign exchange related party relationships of the Group is provided in note 29. differences in jurisdictions where tax is computed based on the functional currency of the country in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of 2 Summary of significant accounting the Groups ongoing business.
policies New standards and interpretations Basis of preparation The Group has adopted new and revised standards and interpretations The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting and applicable requirements of Jersey law.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical Although these new standards and amendments apply for the first time cost basis, except for available-for-sale AFS financial assets, derivative in 2015, they do not have a material impact on the consolidated financial financial instruments, financial assets held at fair value through profit and statements of the Group.
loss and contingent consideration that have been measured at fair value.
Certain items of inventory are carried at net realisable value.
The Standards issued but not yet effective consolidated financial statements are presented in United States dollars Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m, except when Groups consolidated financial statements are listed below and include otherwise indicated.
only those standards and interpretations that are likely to have an impact on the disclosures, financial position or performance of the Group at a Basis of consolidation future date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when they The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements become effective.
of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial returns through its power over the investee.
Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 brings together Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments project: in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting.
than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether 2018, with early application permitted.
Except for hedge accounting, it has power over an investee, including: retrospective application is required but providing comparative The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders information is not compulsory.
For hedge accounting, the requirements of the investee are generally applied prospectively, with some limited exceptions.
The Rights arising from other contractual arrangements adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights measurement of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts new standard on the required effective date.
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and will supersede all current revenue loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognition requirements under IFRS e. g. IAS 11 Construction of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from the statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains Customers.
The new standard will be applied using a five-step model control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
and a core principle of recognising revenue at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS are attributed to the Petrofac Limited shareholders and to the non- 15 are more prescriptive and provide a more structured approach to controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests measuring and recognising revenue.
Either a full or modified having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into after 1 January 2018.
The Group is currently line with the Groups accounting policies.
122 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 122 07 03 2016 13:59 Financial statements 123 assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard Revenue recognition on consortium contracts: the Group recognises on the required effective date.
its share of revenue and backlog revenue from contracts agreed as part of a consortium.
The Group uses the  Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for method based on surveys of work performed to recognise revenue for Acquisitions of Interests the period and then recognises their share of revenue and costs as per The amendments to IFRS 11 require that a joint operator accounting for the agreed consortium contractual arrangement.
In selecting the the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation, in which the activity of appropriate accounting treatment, the main considerations are: the joint operation constitutes a business, must apply the relevant IFRS 3 Determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint venture or principles for business combinations accounting.
The amendments also joint operation though not directly related to revenue recognition this clarify that a previously held interest in a joint operation is not reelement has a material impact on the presentation of revenue for measured on the acquisition of an additional interest in the same joint each project operation while joint control is retained.
In addition, a scope exclusion At what point can the revenues, costs and margin from this type of has been added to IFRS 11 to specify that the amendments do not service contract be estimated reliably measured in accordance with apply when the parties sharing joint control, including the reporting IAS 11: and entity, are under common control of the same ultimate controlling party.
Whether there are any other remaining features unique to the The amendments apply to both the acquisition of the initial interest in a contract that are relevant to the assessment joint operation and the acquisition of any additional interests in the same In selecting the most relevant and reliable accounting policies for IES joint operation and are prospectively effective for annual periods contracts the main considerations are as follows: beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted.
These amendments are not expected to have any impact on the Group, Determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint venture or however they will be applied to any future transactions.
joint operation: though not directly related to revenue recognition this element has a material impact on the presentation of revenue for Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable each project Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Whether the multiple service elements under the contract should be The amendments clarify the principle in IAS 16 and IAS 38 that revenue bifurcated such as construction phase followed by an operations and reflects a pattern of economic benefits that are generated from operating maintenance stage a business of which the asset is part rather than the economic benefits Whether the Group has legal rights to the production output and that are consumed through use of the asset.
As a result, a revenuetherefore is able to book reserves in respect of the project based method cannot be used to depreciate property, plant and The nature and extent, if any, of volume and price financial exposures equipment and may only be used in very limited circumstances to under the terms of the contract amortise intangible assets.
The amendments are effective prospectively The extent to which the Groups capital investment is at risk and for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early the mechanism for recoverability under the terms of the contract adoption permitted.
These amendments are expected to impact the At what point can the revenues from each type of contract Groups Production Enhancement Contracts PECs in Mexico, given be estimated reliably measured in accordance with IAS 18 that the Group is in the process of migrating its current PECs to Whether there are any other remaining features unique to the contract Production Sharing Contracts in near future, therefore the impact is not that are relevant to the assessment considered to be material.
Revenue recognition on Integrated Energy Services IES contracts: Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture The Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate The amendments address the conflict between IFRS 10 and IAS 28 in treatment for its various commercial structures which include Risk dealing with the loss of control of a subsidiary that is sold or contributed Service Contracts, Production Enhancement Contracts and Equity to an associate or joint venture.
The amendments clarify that the gain or Upstream Investments including Production Sharing Contracts see loss resulting from the sale or contribution of assets that constitute a accounting policies note on page 131 for further details business, as defined in IFRS 3, between an investor and its associate or Statement of financial position classification of Integrated Energy joint venture, is recognised in full.
Any gain or loss resulting from the sale Services IES contracts: or contribution of assets that do not constitute a business, however, is recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the The Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate associate or joint venture.
These amendments must be applied balance sheet classification of its Risk Service Contracts, Production prospectively and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Enhancement Contracts and Equity upstream investments see January 2016, with early adoption permitted.
These amendments are not accounting policy notes on page 131 expected to have any impact on the Group, however they will be applied In selecting the most appropriate policies for IES contracts the main to any future transactions.
judgements are as follows: The Greater Stella Area GSA asset is treated in the consolidated Significant accounting judgements and estimates statement of financial position as a financial asset and measured Judgements through profit and loss on the basis that there is currently a shortIn the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management term loan receivable from the consortium partners to fund Petrofacs has made the following judgements, apart from those involving share of the field development costs which cannot be converted to a estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts 20% equity share in the GSA licence until the start of production recognised in the consolidated financial statements: from the field and DECC approval for Petrofac to acquire this interest Revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement in the asset.
We believe this classification most accurately reflects and construction contracts: the Group recognises revenue on fixedthe risks borne throughout the development of GSA and allows price engineering, procurement and construction contracts using the ongoing revaluation to its expected conversion value to property,  method, based on surveys of work plant and equipment at the date Petrofac is formally recognised on performed.
The Group has determined this basis of revenue the licence recognition is the best available measure of progress on such contracts Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 123 .
indd 123 07 03 2016 11:40 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets on all 2 Summary of significant accounting applicable temporary differences where it is probable that future policies continued taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires management The Mexican and Romanian PEC assets are classified as tangible oil to make judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of and gas assets in the consolidated statement of financial position as deferred tax that can be recognised based on the magnitude and they have direct exposure to variable field production levels, and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying amount of deferred tax indirect exposure to changes in commodity prices.
These exposures assets at 31 December 2015 was US$80m 2014: US$34m impact the generation of cash from the assets and any financial Contingent consideration: the Group assesses the amount of return thereon, including the risk of negative financial return.
We consideration receivable on disposal of non-current assets which believe this classification is most appropriate due to the nature of requires the estimation of the fair value of additional consideration expenditure and it is aligned with our treatment in respect of PSC receivable from third parties.
Where it is considered probable that such type arrangements where the risk reward profile is similar consideration is due to the Group, these amounts are recognised as The Berantai Risk Services contract RSC is treated as a financial receivable.
At 31 December 2015 US$nil was recognised as a due asset receivable in the consolidated statement of financial position receivable 2014: US$34m and measured at fair value through profit and loss a designation Income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to routine tax made at inception.
This classification was selected as most audits and also a process whereby tax computations are discussed appropriate due to the lower exposure to risk as would typically be and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst the ultimate the case for a greenfield hydrocarbon development.
As such it was outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be determined determined that classification as property, plant and equipment was with certainty, management estimates the level of provisions required not appropriate.
We believe this designation also results in more for both current and deferred tax on the basis of professional advice relevant information than the other financial asset categories, as it and the nature of current discussions with the tax authority concerned recognises directly in the income statement any changes in value of Recoverable value of property, plant and equipment, intangible oil the project based on our performance against the key performance and gas assets, other intangible assets and other financial assets: the indicators in the contract see accounting policies on page 129 Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any evidence of indicators of impairment in the carrying value of its property, plant Estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of and equipment, intangible oil and gas assets, other intangible assets estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date that and other financial assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment test is undertaken which requires management to estimate the recoverable have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are value of its assets which is initially based on its value in use.
When discussed below: necessary, fair value less costs of disposal is estimated, for example by reference to quoted market values, similar arm's length transactions Provisions for liquidated damages claims LDs : the Group provides for involving these assets or risk adjusted discounted cash flow models.
LD claims where there have been significant contract delays and it is For certain oil and gas assets, where impairment triggers were considered probable that the customer will successfully pursue such identified, the recoverable amounts for these assets were estimated a claim.
This requires an estimate of the amount of LDs payable under using fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow models.
In a claim which involves a number of management judgements and relation to impairment testing performed for the Mexican PEC assets assumptions regarding the amounts to recognise which have a combined carrying value of US$642m at 31 December Project cost to complete estimates: at each reporting date the Group 2015, assumptions were made in determining the expected outcome is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed-price contracts.
of ongoing contractual negotiations in respect of the planned migration Estimating costs to complete on such contracts requires the Group to PSC type arrangements.
These include the expected working to make estimates of future costs to be incurred, based on work to interest in the PSC and financial and fiscal terms achieved.
The be performed beyond the reporting date.
This estimate will impact determination of the recoverable amount of the JSD6000 under revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of costs construction involved assumptions in respect of the remaining capital and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses cost of the project, forecast market conditions, achievable market Recognition of contract variation orders VOs : the Group recognises share and the timing of re-commencement of construction.
In 2015 revenues and margins from VOs where it is considered probable that there were pre-tax impairment charges and fair value re-measurements they will be awarded by the customer and this requires management of US$274m 2014: US$415m post-tax US$254m 2014: US$413m to assess the likelihood of such an award being made by reference to which are explained in note 5.
The key sources of estimation customer communications and other forms of documentary evidence uncertainty for these tests are consistent with those disclosed in notes Onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses on 5 and 12 long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the contract Units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
Estimating these reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil and gas assets future losses involves a number of assumptions about the achievement such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the depletion of the of contract performance targets and the likely levels of future cost remaining reserves over the shorter of: life of the field or the end of the escalation over time.
US$71m was outstanding at 31 December 2015 respective licence concession period.
These calculations require the 2014: US$57m use of estimates including the amount of economically recoverable Impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill reserves and future oil and gas capital expenditure is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was US$80m 2014: US$115m note 12 124 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 124 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 125 Decommissioning costs: the recognition and measurement of The delay in commissioning the Laggan-Tormore plant in Shetland could decommissioning provisions involves the use of estimates and result in a claim for liquidated damages under the contract with our assumptions which include the existence of an obligation to dismantle client, Total.
No provision has been recorded for any potential claim as and remove a facility or restore the site on which it is located, the management believes that liquidated damages are not likely to be appropriate discount and inflation rates to use in determining the net claimed as the revised completion schedule has now been achieved and present value of the liability, the estimated costs of decommissioning the gas plant has been successfully handed over in line with our clients based on internal and external estimates and the payment dates for expectation.
As a result, actual costs could differ Investment in associates and joint ventures from estimated cost estimates used to provide for decommissioning An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
The provision for decommissioning at 31 December 2015 Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and of US$230m 2014: US$189m represents managements best operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint estimate of the present value of the future decommissioning control over those policies.
costs required A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that Potential prior year restatement of the Group's year end 31 have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the December 2014 reported results joint venture.
A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby In the 31 December 2014 consolidated financial statements authorised the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the for issue on 25 February 2015, the Group recognised a loss in respect of assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint Laggan-Tormore of US$230m for the year ended 31 December 2014, control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, taking cumulative losses on the project to US$180m given that an which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require amount of US$50m had been recognised as profits in respect of the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
project in the years prior to 2014.
The loss recorded in 2014 was based on a total cost-to-complete forecast prepared by site management and The considerations made in determining significant influence or reviewed and approved by the senior OEC leadership team in January joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control 2015. over subsidiaries.
On 19 April 2015, the Group announced an additional loss in respect of The Groups investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted Laggan-Tormore of US$195m based on a revised cost-to-complete for using the equity method.
forecast reviewed by the Board on 18 April 2015.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint Given the scale of these incremental losses and the proximity of the venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the timing of the market update to our year-end results announcement, the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net Board has considered whether any of the incremental losses should assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
have been recognised at the time of the preparation of the 2014 Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the accounts and be accounted for as a prior year adjustment.
As a result, carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor the Board commissioned KPMG to carry out a review of the individually tested for impairment.
circumstances leading up to the 19 April 2015 market update with a The consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of the view to identifying the issues for consideration relating to the incremental results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
of those investees is presented as part of the Groups OCI.
In addition, The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has evaluated the report when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the prepared by KPMG and considered managements recommendation associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any with regard to the need to restate the Groups 2014 results.
changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
The Management determined that the range of over-statement of 2014 profit aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of an associate and a after tax is US$27m to US$57m.
There is no effect on cash flows and joint venture is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement the balance sheet impact is immaterial.
The Directors have concluded outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and nonthat no restatement of the 2014 reported results is required.
In reaching controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
this conclusion, the Directors considered the quantum of the prior year Any unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between overstatement of profit in conjunction with relevant qualitative the Group and the associate and joint venture are eliminated to the considerations.
Specifically, the amount of the restatement is only a extent of the interest in its associates and joint ventures.
component of total post-tax losses now incurred on the contract of The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for US$608m and in the context of these total contract losses the Directors the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments do not consider that correcting the prior year to reflect an earlier are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
recognition of this element of the contract loss is material to users of the financial statements.
The Directors also assessed the disclosures made After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it on Laggan-Tormore by the Group and the impact on each of the is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in its Groups financial highlights as reported for 2014 and in these associate or joint venture.
At each reporting date, the Group determines consolidated financial statements in reaching the conclusion.
whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group Provision for potential liquidated damages claims LDs in respect calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the of the Laggan-Tormore contract recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying The Group provides for LD claims where there have been significant value and recognises any loss as an exceptional item in the consolidated contract delays and it is considered probable that the customer will income statement.
This requires an estimate of the amount of LDs contractually payable under a claim, and the likelihood that any amount will be levied.
This involves a number of management judgements and assumptions regarding the appropriate amounts to recognise.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 125 .
indd 125 07 03 2016 11:40 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Group companies 2 Summary of significant accounting On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are policies continued translated into United States dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over the reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
The exchange investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in OCI.
of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from particular foreign operation is recognised in the consolidated income disposal is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Joint operations Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair The Groups interests in joint operations are recognised in relation to its value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising interest in a joint operations: on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly date.
Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from Property, plant and equipment the joint operation Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the purchase joint operation price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to making Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value Under joint operations, the expenses that the Group incurs and its of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated income provided on a straight-line basis, other than on oil and gas assets, at the statement.
Assets controlled by the Group and liabilities incurred by it following rates: are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Oil and gas facilities 10% 12.5% Foreign currency translation Plant and equipment 4% 33% The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% dollars, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
For each or lease term if shorter entity, the Group determines the functional currency and items included Office furniture and equipment 25% 50% in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that Vehicles 20% 33% functional currency.
The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign operation, the gain or loss that is reclassified Tangible oil and gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.
using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future development Transactions and balances expenditure relating to those reserves: refer to page 45 for life of Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Groups these fields.
entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each financial Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are year end.
translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date.
No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment recognised in profit or loss with the exception of monetary items that are is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are designated as part of the hedge of the Groups net investment of a expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the foreign operation.
These are recognised in OCI until the net investment is fide-recognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included disposed of, at which time the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit in the consolidated income statement when the item is derecognised.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on Gains are not classified as revenue.
those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss arising on translation Borrowing costs of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item i. e. assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those recognised in OCI or profit or loss are also recognised in OCI or profit or assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their loss, respectively.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest payable in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
126 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 126 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 127 Business combinations and goodwill recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition measurement period adjustments which arise as a result of additional method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the information obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each against carried goodwill.
Contingent consideration that is classified business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the nonas equity is not re-measured and subsequent settlement is accounted controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate for within equity.
share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs Intangible assets non oil and gas assets are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is separable in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair value can be and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the measured reliably.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their useful equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any economic life using a straight-line method unless a better method resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income reflecting the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are statement.
expected to be consumed can be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets is included in the selling, general and Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate administration expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for nonThe expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net fair Any change in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the intangible value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the asset is treated as a change in accounting estimate and is accounted for fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
Intangible consideration transferred, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and that the asset may be impaired.
reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of Oil and gas assets the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration Capitalised costs transferred, then the gain is recognised in the consolidated income The Groups activities in relation to oil and gas assets are limited statement.
to assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Oil and gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Evaluation expenditures indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal activities All transaction costs associated with business combinations are charged is capitalised as an intangible oil and gas asset.
Such costs include the to the consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable overheads For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated to incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried as an of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is allocated asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill development.
Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and is monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or than an operating segment determined in accordance with IFRS 8 otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are Operating Segments.
written-off in the income statement.
When such assets are declared part Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of of a commercial development, related costs are transferred to tangible oil the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
All intangible oil and gas assets are assessed for any recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying impairment prior to transfer and any impairment loss is recognised in the amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, an impairment consolidated income statement.
Development expenditures Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and part of Expenditures relating to development of assets which includes the the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill associated construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of as platforms, pipelines and vessels are capitalised within property, plant the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the and equipment as oil and gas facilities.
Expenditures relating to the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based drilling and completion of production wells are capitalised within on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the value portion property, plant and equipment as oil and gas assets.
of the cash-generating units retained.
Changes in unit-of-production factors Contingent consideration payable on a business combination Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a dealt with prospectively in accordance with the treatment of changes proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an acquisition, in accounting estimates, not by immediate adjustment of prior the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value of the years amounts.
The unwinding of the discount element is recognised as a finance cost in the consolidated income statement.
Changes in estimated contingent consideration payable on acquisition are Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 127 .
indd 127 07 03 2016 11:40 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and 2 Summary of significant accounting estimated earnings policies continued Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction Decommissioning contracts are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when For each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
the progress payments received or receivable from the customers, are The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future shown in current assets in the statement of financial position under expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for work in progress decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life of the Where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated losses, reserves.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure the excess is shown as billings in excess of cost and estimated is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the oil and gas asset.
earnings within current liabilities The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning Trade and other receivables provisions is included under finance costs in the consolidated Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount income statement.
less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be uncollectable.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence At each statement of financial position date, the Group reviews that the collection of the full amount is no longer probable under the the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any are assessed as uncollectable.
such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
In assessing value and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the outstanding bank overdrafts.
risks specific to the asset.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on the risk-adjusted discounted cash flow models and includes value Provisions attributable to contingent resources.
A post-tax discount rate is used Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or in such calculations.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the time value carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income statement revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Fair value measurement the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying receivable from customer under Berantai RSC, available-for-sale financial amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been assets and amounts receivable in respect of the development of the recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss Greater Stella Area at fair value at each reporting date.
Fair value related is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless disclosures for financial instruments are disclosed in note 16. the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants Inventories at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of takes place either: business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises purchase price, cost of In the principal market for the asset or liability, or production, transportation and other directly allocable expenses.
Costs In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market of inventories, other than raw materials, are determined using the first-infor the asset or liability first-out method.
Costs of raw materials are determined using the The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible weighted average method.
128 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 128 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 129 The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions The fair value changes to undesignated forward currency contracts are that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, reported within other operating income expenses.
The fair value changes assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
relating to the internal rate of return under the Berantai RSC receivable are recognised as revenue whereas the unwinding of discount is A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a reported as finance income.
Negative fair value changes on the Berantai market participant's ability to generate economic benefits by using the RSC as a result of changes in the expected recovery of the receivable asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market and negative fair value changes to the amounts receivable in respect of participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
the development of the Greater Stella Area are recorded as an expense The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the in the consolidated income statement refer to note 5. circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair Loans and receivables value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or the use of unobservable inputs.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method, less described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any to the fair value measurement as a whole: discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for consolidated income statement.
This category generally applies to trade identical assets or liabilities and other receivables.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly Available-for-sale AFS financial assets observable AFS financial assets include equity investments.
Equity investments Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that classified as AFS are those that are neither classified as held-for-trading is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable nor designated at fair value through profit or loss.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements After initial measurement, AFS financial assets are subsequently on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation comprehensive income and credited in the available-for-sale reserve until based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value the investment is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
is recognised in the consolidated income statement within other operating income expenses, or the investment is determined to be For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined impaired, when the cumulative loss is reclassified from the AFS reserve classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics to the consolidated income statement in other operating and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy income expenses.
Financial liabilities Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial assets at at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or as derivatives appropriate.
designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee contracts Subsequent measurement and derivative financial instruments.
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified in the following categories: Subsequent measurement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified Loans and receivables in the following categories: Available-for-sale financial assets Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and borrowings Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value reported in the consolidated income statement.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 129 .
indd 129 07 03 2016 11:40 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Pensions and other long-term employment benefits 2 Summary of significant accounting The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in policies continued accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries in Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated income Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial statement in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial in the year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of financial position.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also includes The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Group designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by operates, further details of which are given in note 26.
Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for Share-based payment transactions trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration in the Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render statement of profit or loss.
services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if Equity-settled transactions the criteria in IAS 39 are satisfied.
The Group has not designated any The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service Loans and borrowings or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price This is the category most relevant to the Group.
After initial recognition, of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the relevant the EIR amortisation process.
employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement profit or loss.
charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
For more information, refer to note 25.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not Financial assets the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset performance conditions and service conditions are satisfied.
Equity is fide-recognised where: awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but date is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and purchased to satisfy various new share scheme awards made to the rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained employees of the Company and its joint venture partner employees, substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred which will be transferred to the members of the schemes on their control of the asset respective vesting dates subject to satisfying any performance Financial liabilities conditions of each scheme.
The trusts continue to be included in the A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability Group financial statements under IFRS 10. is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Treasury shares If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same For the purpose of making awards under the Groups employee share lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability schemes, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been liability such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the equity.
Shares vested during the year are satisfied with these shares.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
130 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 130 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 131 Leases Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the percentageThe determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease of-completion method, measured by milestones completed or earned is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and value once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of a contract of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are recognised only to to use the asset.
the extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance All other leases are classified as operating leases.
standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only included in revenue Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is of the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of commencement probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of Integrated Energy Services the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The corresponding liability Equity Upstream Investments to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned processing or sale of hydrocarbons from the Groups Equity Upstream between finance costs in the income statement and reduction of the Investments on an entitlement basis, when the significant risks and lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
remaining balance of the liability.
Production Enhancement Contracts The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments Revenue from production enhancement contracts is recognised based for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income on the volume of hydrocarbons produced in the period and the agreed statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
tariff and the reimbursement arrangement for costs incurred.
Pre-contract bid costs Risk Services Contract RSC Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until there Revenue from the Risk Services Contract is recognised as follows: is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which all The construction services element of the RSC is accounted for using further costs are recognised as assets and expensed over the life of a  method at the end of the reporting period the contract.
measured on the basis of the extent of the schedule of work Revenue recognition completed to date.
Due to uncertainties about the eventual financial Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic outcome of the construction work no margin is recognised in the early benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
stages of the construction and revenues are only recognised to the The following specific recognition criteria also apply: extent of costs until the outcome can be estimated reliably The operation and management activities revenues margins are Onshore Engineering & Construction recognised on a proportionate basis over the life of the contract Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised using the on the basis of the level of operating expenditure incurred each year  method, based on surveys of work performed The total remuneration fee is a multiple of the estimated capital once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the early expenditure control budget agreed with the customer with this stages of contract completion, when the outcome of a contract cannot multiple designed to deliver the contractors internal rate of return be estimated reliably, contract revenues are recognised only to the which is determined by the contractors performance against a matrix extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
of KPIs which include actual cost of field development vs control Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis budget set, the time taken to achieve first gas from the field and the of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by the timing of final project completion cost-to-cost method.
Payment of cost recovery commences from first oil gas in equal quarterly instalments over seven years and payment of the Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in remuneration fee commences from the quarter following completion of which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule the construction phase of the project and concludes at the end of the of rates.
These receivable amounts under the RSC are classified as Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss as the contract is of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, managed and the performance evaluated by management on a fair whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
For measurement purposes, fair value principles are applied to calculate the present value of earned remuneration under Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract the contract by discounting back to present value and then splitting is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance between due within one year and long-term receivables within other standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive financial assets see note 16 on page 148 payments can be measured reliably.
Variation orders are only included in revenue when it is probable they will be accepted and can be measured reliably and claims are only included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule of rates.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 131 .
indd 131 07 03 2016 11:40 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference 2 Summary of significant accounting to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity policies continued profiles.
The fair value of oil price collar contracts is determined by Income taxes reference to market values for similar instruments.
Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: deferred tax.
Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods value of a recognised asset or liability: or are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or transaction, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
The documentation also Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the statement includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or of financial position date between the carrying amounts of assets and transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and how the Group will liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following exceptions: to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition the hedged risk.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting accounting nor taxable profit or loss changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it hedging relationship, as follows: is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and Cash flow hedges Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on that a taxable profit will be available against which the deductible the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive temporary differences carried forward tax credits or tax losses can income in net unrealised gains losses on derivatives, while the be utilised ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each consolidated income statement when the hedged transaction affects the statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is consolidated income statement.
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Unrecognised If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each statement of financial without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is position date and are recognised to the extent that it has become revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to comprehensive income remains separately in equity until the forecast be recovered.
transaction occurs and affects the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is income is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives Current and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to other at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are credited with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that or charged to, respectively, other comprehensive income or equity.
significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the consolidated income not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability statement.
or transaction are separated and accounted for as Derivative financial instruments and hedging standalone derivatives.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and oil price collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated income statement.
132 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 132 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 133 3 Segment information The Group delivers its services through the four reporting segments set out below: Onshore Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore oil and gas industry Offshore Projects & Operations which provides offshore engineering, operations and maintenance onshore and offshore and engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the offshore oil and gas industry Engineering & Consulting Services which provides technical engineering, consultancy, conceptual design, front end engineering and design FEED and project management consultancy PMC across all sectors including renewables Integrated Energy Services which co-invests with partners in oil and gas production, processing and transportation assets, provides production improvement services under value aligned commercial structures and oil and gas related technical competency training and consultancy services Management separately monitors the trading results of its four reporting segments for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and for making decisions about how resources are allocated.
Interest costs and income arising from borrowings and cash balances which are not directly attributable to individual operating segments are allocated to Corporate rather than allocated to individual segments.
In addition, certain shareholder services related overheads, intra-group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to reporting segments.
The presentation of the Group results below also separately identifies the effect of the Laggan-Tormore loss, asset impairments, certain remeasurements, restructuring and redundancy costs, contract migration costs and material deferred tax movements arising due to foreign exchange differences in jurisdictions where tax is computed based on the functional currency of the country.
Results excluding these non-recurring items are used by management and presented in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the business.
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the Groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Year ended 31 December 2015 Exceptional Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation items and certain Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Business re-measurements Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations performance Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue External sales 4,368 1,458 502 516 6,844 6,844 Inter-segment sales 15 26 213 15 269 Total revenue 4,383 1,484 715 531 269 6,844 6,844 Segment results 425 66 70 33 7 1 600 354 246 Laggan-Tormore loss 480 480 480 Unallocated corporate costs 18 18 18 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 55 66 70 33 11 1 102 354 252 Share of profits losses of associates joint ventures 1 1 10 10 1 9 Finance costs 53 48 101 101 Finance income 8 1 9 9 Profit loss before income tax 55 67 69 2 58 1 20 355 335 Income tax expense credit 48 1 19 7 4 55 3 58 Laggan-Tormore tax relief 49 49 49 Non-controlling interests 5 5 5 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 59 68 50 5 54 1 9 358 349 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 133 .
indd 133 07 03 2016 11:40 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment information continued Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 35 121 6 95 3 260 Intangible oil and gas assets 10 10 Charges: Depreciation 46 7 9 124 9 1 196 Amortisation and write off 4 4 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 5 24 326 355 Other long-term employment benefits 20 1 1 22 Share-based payments 15 3 1 2 2 23 Year ended 31 December 2014 Integrated Energy Services exceptional Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation items and certain Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Business re-measurements Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations performance Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1 External sales 3,207 2,000 276 768 10 6,241 6,241 Inter-segment sales 34 9 161 14 218 Total revenue 3,241 2,009 437 782 228 6,241 6,241 2 Segment results 595 119 39 165 4 11 925 463 462 Laggan-Tormore loss 200 30 230 230 Unallocated corporate costs 11 11 11 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 395 89 39 165 15 11 684 463 221 Share of profits of associates joint ventures 7 7 7 Finance costs 25 54 79 79 Finance income 20 2 22 22 Profit loss before income tax 395 89 39 167 67 11 634 463 171 Income tax expense credit 28 28 6 36 6 36 2 34 Laggan-Tormore tax relief 3 3 3 Non-controlling interests 20 20 20 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 403 64 33 131 61 11 581 461 120 1 Negative elimination of external sales shown above of US$10m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the Laggan-Tormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
2 Represents release of previously eliminated margin relating to West Desaru and Berantai vessel on disposal of subsidiary.
134 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 134 10 03 2016 12:48 Financial statements 135 Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 28 171 9 437 12 11 668 Intangible oil and gas assets 144 144 Charges: Depreciation 43 18 6 159 4 230 Amortisation and write off 14 14 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 463 463 Other long-term employment benefits 18 1 19 Share-based payments 11 4 1 3 3 22 Geographical segments The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and non-current assets by geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Year ended 31 December 2015 United Arab United Other Kuwait Saudi Arabia Oman Emirates Algeria Kingdom Malaysia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,408 1,395 833 804 555 520 332 997 6,844 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Tunisia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 34 426 489 736 52 38 1,775 Intangible oil and gas assets 11 74 1 86 Other intangible assets 4 17 21 Goodwill 48 29 3 80 Year ended 31 December 2014 United United Arab Other Kuwait Saudi Arabia Kingdom Emirates Algeria Malaysia Oman countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,401 925 688 515 469 450 355 1,438 6,241 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Tunisia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 54 299 421 800 61 63 1,698 Intangible oil and gas assets 11 135 9 1 156 Other intangible assets 7 23 30 Goodwill 67 44 3 1 115 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenues representing greater than 10% of Group revenues arose from two customers amounting to US$1,515m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment 2014: two customers, US$525m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment and US$449m in the Offshore Projects & Operations segment.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 135 .
indd 135 07 03 2016 11:40 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Revenues and expenses a.
Revenue 2015 2014 US$m US$m Rendering of services 6,700 6,044 Sale of crude oil and gas 144 197 6,844 6,241 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$400m 2014: US$226m.
The revenues are included as external revenues of the Group since the risks and rewards associated with recognition are assumed by the Group.
Cost of sales During 2015, included in cost of sales is depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$168m 2014: US$210m note 10 and intangible amortisation of US$1m 2014: US$2m other intangible amortisation and oil and gas intangible written off amounting to US$8m.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and losses on undesignated derivatives of US$3m 2014: US$10m.
These amounts are an economic hedge of foreign exchange risk but do not meet the criteria within IAS 39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2015 2014 US$m US$m Staff costs 195 223 Depreciation note 10 28 20 Amortisation note 13 3 3 Write off of intangible oil and gas assets note 13 1 Other operating expenses 102 121 328 368 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
d. Staff costs 2015 2014 US$m US$m Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 1,209 1,164 Social security costs 58 68 Defined contribution pension costs 26 23 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 26 22 19 Expense of share-based payments note 23 23 22 1,338 1,296 Of the US$1,338m 2014: US$1,296m of staff costs shown above, US$1,143m 2014: US$1,073m is included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of payrolled staff employed by the Group during the year was 16,635 2014: 16,135. e. Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Group audit fee 2 2 Audit of accounts of subsidiaries 2 1 Others 1 1 5 4 Others include audit related assurance services of US$400,000 2014: US$380,000, tax advisory services of US$430,000 2014: US$210,000, tax compliance services of US$290,000 2014: US$240,000 and other non-audit services of US$50,000 2014: US$40,000.
136 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 136 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 137 f. Other operating income 2015 2014 US$m US$m Gain on disposal of non-current asset 8 56 Foreign exchange gains 2 30 Other income 14 9 24 95 Other income includes US$9m contractual break fee earned in Integrated Energy Services for exiting the Bowleven Etinde project and US$2m representing income from sale of scrap on projects in Onshore Engineering and Construction 2014: US$5m receipt of liquidated damages from a vendor for late delivery of a MOPU.
Disposal of non-current asset On 13 August 2014, the Group sold 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited which via its subsidiaries owns interests in the FPSO Berantai, FPF3 formerly Jasmine venture and FPF5 formerly Ocean Legend to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited for an initial cash consideration of US$307m.
At 31 December 2014, there was a further US$34m of contingent consideration payable and this together with the initial consideration of US$307m resulted in the recognition of a total gain on disposal of US$56m in the IES segment in 2014, which included a fair value gain of US$31m on initial recognition of the remaining 20% investment in associate.
During 2015, upon final completion of the disposal, the fair value of the consideration for 80% of the equity was increased by US$7m due to the receipt of the pending investment approval by PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited.
Consequently, a US$1m fair value gain was recognised on the remaining 20% investment in associate.
The consideration of US$41m was received in full by 31 December 2015.
The gain on disposal has been computed as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Fair value of consideration for 80% of the equity received in cash 7 87 Proceeds from repayments of loans due from FPSO Holding Limited 220 7 307 Fair value of contingent consideration for 80% of the equity receivable at reporting date 34 Total consideration 7 341 Property, plant and equipment 31 Cash 48 Finance lease receivables 336 Trade and other receivables 16 Debt acquisition costs 3 Total book value of assets disposed 434 Berantai RSC project financing debt transferred 128 Trade and other payables 25 Total book value of liabilities disposed 153 Due to due from related parties arising on disposal Due from related parties 23 Due to related parties 40 17 Allocated goodwill written off note 12 15 Transaction costs 3 Fair value gain on initial recognition of remaining 20% investment in associate 1 31 Gain on disposal 8 56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 137 .
indd 137 07 03 2016 11:40 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Revenues and expenses continued g. Other operating expenses 2015 2014 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses 4 39 Other expenses 5 3 9 42 Other expenses mainly comprise US$2m write-off of due from related party balances relating to Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company and PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited.
5 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2015 2014 US$m US$m Impairment of assets including goodwill 95 172 Fair value re-measurements 214 261 Onerous leasehold property provisions and impairments 15 Group reorganisation costs 17 Others 14 30 355 463 Foreign exchange translation losses on deferred tax balances 25 Tax relief on exceptional items and certain re-measurements 22 2 3 2 Income statement charge for the year 358 461 Impairment of assets and fair value re-measurements As a result of significantly lower commodity price expectations, the Group reviewed the carrying value of its PM304 oil and gas assets.
The review was carried out on a fair value less costs of disposal basis, which was calculated to be US$329m, using risk adjusted cash flow projections a level 3 measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0%.
This resulted in a pre-tax impairment of US$53m post-tax US$33m which has been allocated proportionately to intangible oil and gas assets and property, plant and equipment.
Management has used forward curve oil prices of US$41 per barrel for 2016, US$48 per barrel for 2017, US$65 per barrel for 2018, US$70 per barrel for 2019 and US$75 per barrel for 2020 and beyond.
A 10% decrease in commodity prices would result in an additional pre-tax impairment charge of US$87m post-tax US$54m.
The Group has reviewed the carrying value of goodwill allocated to the IES portfolio in light of revised commodity price expectations and underlying asset performance during the year.
As a result of this review, a further impairment charge of US$33m post-tax US$33m has been recognised in respect of IES goodwill 2014: US$18m post-tax US$18m.
As a result of a re-assessment of oil and gas forward prices, the Group revalued its loan receivable from Ithaca Energy in respect of the Greater Stella Area in the UK.
The revaluation exercise was carried out on a fair value basis using risk adjusted cash flow projections discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0%.
This resulted in a pre-tax reduction in fair value of the Greater Stella Area receivable of US$214m post-tax US$214m 2014: US$207m post-tax US$207m in the IES segment.
In 2014, a revaluation charge to profit and loss of US$54m post-tax US$44m 2015: nil was also recognised in respect of Berantai RSC in Malaysia and warrants held over shares in Seven Energy International Limited in the IES segment.
In 2014, US$172m of impairment charges related to the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania US$134m: post-tax US$137m, the FPSO Opportunity and OML119 in Nigeria US$20m: post-tax US$25m and IES goodwill impairment US$18m: post-tax US$18m.
Fair value less costs of disposal are determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated from oil and gas production net of selling costs taking into account assumptions that market participants would typically use in estimating fair values.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles for each asset taking into account forward market commodity prices over the relevant period and, where external forward prices are not available, the Groups Board-approved five year business planning assumptions are used.
As each field has different reservoir characteristics and contractual terms the post-tax cash flows for each asset are calculated using individual economic models which include assumptions around the amount of recoverable reserves, production costs, life of the field licence period and the selling price of the commodities produced.
Onerous leasehold property provision US$15m of onerous leasehold property provision represents the write-off of US$6m of leasehold property improvements and the estimated future costs of US$9m relating to vacant leasehold office buildings at Quattro House and Bridge View in Aberdeen, UK for which the leases expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively.
138 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 138 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 139 Group reorganisation costs During the last quarter of 2015, the Group undertook a major review of how the future organisation should be structured and the costs relating to this exercise including staff redundancy costs, office closure costs and other restructuring type expenses amounted to US$17m post-tax US$15m.
Taxation US$25m of foreign exchange losses on the retranslation of deferred tax balances denominated in Malaysian Ringgits have been incurred during the year in respect of IESs oil and gas activities in Malaysia due to an approximate 25% weakening in the Malaysian local currency versus the US dollar.
6 Finance costs income 2015 2014 US$m US$m Finance costs Long-term borrowings 48 54 Finance leases 49 19 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 26 4 6 Total finance costs 101 79 Finance income Bank interest 1 2 Unwinding of discount on long-term receivables from customers note 16 8 20 Total finance income 9 22 7 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Total Business items and certain Total performance re-measurements performance re-measurements 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current income tax Current income tax charge 69 2 67 108 108 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 1 1 89 89 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 49 5 44 16 7 9 Recognition of tax losses relating to prior years 5 5 2 5 3 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 18 18 Income tax expense credit reported in the income statement 6 3 9 33 2 31 Income tax reported in equity Deferred tax related to items charged directly to equity 1 1 2 2 Current income tax related to share schemes 1 1 Foreign exchange movements on translation 1 1 Income tax income reported in equity 1 1 The split of the Groups tax charge between current and deferred tax varies from year to year depending largely on: the variance between tax provided on the percentage of completion of projects versus that paid on accrued income for engineering, procurement and construction contracts: and the tax deductions available for expenditure on Risk Service Contracts and Production Enhancement Contracts PECs, which are partially offset by the creation of losses.
See 7c below for the impact on the movements in the year.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 139 .
indd 139 07 03 2016 11:40 140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Income tax continued b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Total Business items and certain Total performance re-measurements performance re-measurements 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Accounting profit before tax 20 355 335 634 463 171 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0% 2014: 0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 33 31 64 69 38 31 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 8 8 15 1 16 Income not subject to tax 3 3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 19 19 90 1 89 Adjustments in respect of losses not previously recognised derecognised 4 9 5 4 2 2 Unrecognised tax losses 50 50 39 6 45 Other permanent differences 1 25 26 4 26 30 Effect of change in tax rates 6 6 At the effective income tax rate of negative 2.7% 2014: 18.4% 6 3 9 33 2 31 The Group's effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2015 is negative 2.7% 2014: 18.4%.
The Groups effective tax rate, excluding the impact of impairments and certain re-measurements, for the year ended 31 December 2015 is 30.0% 2014: 5.2% tax charge.
A number of factors have impacted the effective tax rate, excluding the impact of impairments and certain re-measurements, this year, principally being the net release of tax provisions held in respect of income taxes which is partially offset by the impact of tax losses created in the year for which the realisation against future taxable profits is not probable.
In line with prior years, the effective tax rate is also driven by the mix of profits in the jurisdictions in which profits are earned.
From 1 April 2015, the main UK corporation tax rate reduced from 21% to 20%.
Further reductions were announced in the UK budget on 8 July 2015 which will reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020.
These changes in the UK rate were substantively enacted prior to the reporting date and therefore the impact of the change is included within the current year charge.
From 1 January 2016, the main Malaysian rate of corporation tax will reduce by 1% to 24%.
This change was substantively enacted prior to 31 December 2014.
The impact of the change was included within the previous year tax charge.
c. Deferred tax Deferred tax relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated income of financial position statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 2 2 1 Accelerated depreciation 249 297 48 35 Profit recognition 68 58 10 26 Overseas earnings 3 3 Other temporary differences 10 2 8 Gross deferred tax liabilities 332 359 Deferred tax assets Losses available for offset 172 108 66 15 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 5 3 2 1 Share scheme 5 4 Profit recognition 3 5 2 1 Decommissioning 57 58 1 Other temporary differences 29 64 35 33 Gross deferred tax assets 271 242 Net deferred tax liability deferred tax credit charge 61 117 57 12 Of which: Deferred tax assets 80 34 Deferred tax liabilities 141 151 140 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 140 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 141 Included within the net deferred tax asset are UK tax losses of US$305m 2014: US$40m.
This represents the losses which are expected to be utilised based on managements projection of future taxable profits.
As a result of the UK rate change noted in 7b, the effective tax rate on the loss utilisation over this period is expected to be 18.5%.
d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through offset against future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$525m 2014: US$231m.
2015 2014 US$m US$m Expiration dates for tax losses No earlier than 2020 66 18 No expiration date 447 201 513 219 Tax credits no expiration date 12 12 525 231 During 2015, the Group has not recognised any tax benefit from the utilisation of tax losses 2014: US$1m, no recognition of previously unrecognised losses 2014: US$4m and has derecognised tax losses from a prior period of US$5m 2014: US$2m.
8 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the employee share award schemes which are held in trust.
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items and certain re-measurements 9 581 Loss profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share including exceptional items and certain re-measurements 349 120 2015 2014 Shares Shares million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 340 341 1 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment schemes 3 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 340 344 1 For the year ended 31 December 2015, potentially issuable ordinary shares under share-based payment schemes are excluded from the diluted earnings per ordinary share calculation, as their inclusion would decrease the loss per ordinary share.
9 Dividends paid and proposed 2015 2014 US$m US$m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2013: 43.80 cents per share 149 Interim dividend 2014: 22.00 cents per share 75 Final dividend for 2014: 43.80 cents per share 149 Interim dividend 2015: 22.00 cents per share 74 223 224 2015 2014 US$m US$m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2015: 43.80 cents per share 2014: 43.80 cents per share 152 152 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 141 .
indd 141 07 03 2016 11:40 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Property, plant and equipment Office Land, buildings furniture Assets Oil and gas Oil and gas and leasehold Plant and and under assets facilities improvements equipment Vehicles equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2014 828 448 343 30 23 183 29 1,884 Additions 172 225 28 15 2 26 200 668 Disposals 48 7 1 9 65 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 13 264 264 Transfers 5 13 3 14 7 Exchange difference 13 3 1 6 23 At 1 January 2015 1,256 625 374 47 24 180 222 2,728 Additions adjustments 97 4 4 2 15 146 260 Disposals 44 4 1 6 55 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 13 73 73 Transfers 34 8 8 50 Exchange difference 4 1 4 9 At 31 December 2015 1,426 621 364 50 25 193 318 2,997 Depreciation & impairment At 1 January 2014 200 175 162 18 19 119 693 Charge for the year 116 24 52 12 3 23 230 Charge for impairment note 5 99 15 2 29 145 Disposals 17 6 1 8 32 Transfers 5 5 Exchange difference 2 1 3 6 At 1 January 2015 415 197 211 31 21 126 29 1,030 Charge for the year 78 42 40 4 2 30 196 Charge for impairment note 5 32 15 6 53 Disposals 44 2 1 6 53 Transfers 6 6 Exchange difference 2 1 1 4 At 31 December 2015 525 254 211 38 22 143 29 1,222 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2015 901 367 153 12 3 50 289 1,775 At 31 December 2014 841 428 163 16 3 54 193 1,698 Additions to oil and gas assets mainly comprise Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$61m, Pnuco PEC of US$26m 2014: Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$160m, and Pnuco PEC of US$12m and US$18m relating to block PM304 in Malaysia which is offset by change in estimates for decommissioning provision relating to block PM304 in Malaysia of US$8m.
Negative adjustment to oil and gas facilities represents a reduction due to a revised finance lease agreement with the lessor on an FPSO for block PM304 in Malaysia.
Additions to oil and gas facilities in 2014 mainly comprised an FPSO acquired under a finance lease for block PM304 in Malaysia of US$184m, the upgrade of the FPF4 at a cost of US$5m and upgrade work on the Berantai vessel of US$10m.
Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets of US$73m comprises Cendor phase 2 field development costs on block PM304 in Malaysia 2014: field development costs on block PM304 in Malaysia of US$236m and Ticleni PEC costs of US$28m.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$168m 2014: US$210m is included in cost of sales and US$28m 2014: US$20m in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction mainly represent expenditures incurred in relation to construction of the JSD6000 installation vessel.
Interest capitalised on construction of JSD6000 installation vessel in 2015 amounted to US$2m 2014: US$nil.
142 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 142 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 143 Included in oil and gas facilities, land, buildings and leasehold improvements and plant and equipment is property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements, for which net book values are as follows: 2015 2014 Net book value US$m US$m At 1 January 401 19 Finance leased assets arising on disposal of subsidiary note 4f 215 Additions adjustments 4 197 Depreciation 46 30 Exchange difference At 31 December 351 401 Additions to finance leased assets in 2014 mainly comprised an FPSO acquired under a finance lease for block PM304 in Malaysia of US$184m.
11 Material partly-owned subsidiaries Petrofac Emirates LLC is the only material partly-owned subsidiary in the Group and the proportion of the nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group is disclosed in note 32.
2015 2014 Movement of non-controlling interest in Petrofac Emirates LLC US$m US$m At 1 January 12 5 Profit for the year 5 20 Net unrealised losses on derivatives 8 13 Dividend paid 5 At 31 December 4 12 The balance of non-controlling interests relate to other partly-owned subsidiaries that are not material to the Group.
Financial information of Petrofac Emirates LLC that has material non-controlling interests is provided below: 2015 2014 Summarised income statement US$m US$m Revenue 1,320 848 Cost of sales 1,247 715 Gross profit 73 133 Selling, general and administration expenses 56 54 Finance income 1 Profit for the year 18 79 Attributable to non-controlling interest 5 20 Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives Net unrealised losses gains on derivatives at 1 January 52 23 Movement during the year 31 75 Net unrealised losses on derivatives at 31 December 83 52 Attributable to non-controlling interest 21 13 Summarised statement of financial position Current assets 526 604 Non-current assets 240 200 Total assets 766 804 Current liabilities 738 745 Non-current liabilities 10 10 Total liabilities 748 755 Total equity 18 49 Attributable to non-controlling interest 4 12 Summarised cash flow information Operating 90 133 Investing 65 38 Financing Dividends of US$20m were declared during 2015, of which US$5m is attributable to non-controlling interest 2014: US$nil.
These dividends were adjusted against related party balances in the standalone books.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 143 .
indd 143 07 03 2016 11:40 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2015 2014 US$m US$m At 1 January 115 155 Impairment note 5 33 18 Goodwill written off on disposal of subsidiary note 4f 15 Exchange difference 2 7 At 31 December 80 115 Goodwill of US$33m 2014: US$18m relating to the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit was impaired at 30 June 2015 note 5.
Goodwill written off on disposal of subsidiary during 2014 related to the sale of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited note 4f.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to four groups of cash-generating units, for impairment testing as follows: Onshore Engineering & Construction Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services These represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The Group considers cash-generating units to be individually significant where they represent greater than 25% of the total goodwill balance.
Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services cash-generating units Recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management have adopted projection periods appropriate to each units value in use.
For Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units the cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period.
For the Integrated Energy Services business the cash flows are based on economic models over the length of the contracted period for Production Enhancement Contracts, Equity Upstream Investments and Risk Service Contracts.
For other operations included in Integrated Energy Services, cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5% per annum.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2015 2014 US$m US$m Onshore Engineering & Construction unit 29 29 Offshore Projects & Operations unit 26 28 Engineering & Consulting Services unit 25 24 Integrated Energy Services unit 34 80 115 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for the Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and the Engineering & Consulting Services units Market share: the key management assumptions relate to continuing to maintain existing levels of business and grow organically in international markets.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.6% per annum 2014: 11.6% per annum derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the Group.
A 100 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.6% would result in no additional impairment charges.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for the Integrated Energy Services unit at 30 June 2015 The following key assumptions were included in the value in use calculations at 30 June 2015 at which point in time the remaining amount of goodwill of US$33m was fully impaired: Market share: for the Training business which is within Integrated Energy Services, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Capital expenditure: the Production Enhancement Contracts in the Integrated Energy Services unit require a minimum level of capital spend on the projects in the initial years to meet contractual commitments.
If the capital is not spent, a cash payment of the balance is required which does not qualify for cost recovery.
The level of capital spend assumed in the value in use calculation is that expected over the period of the budget based on the current field development plans which assumes the minimum spend is met on each project and the contracts remain in force for the entire duration of the project.
For other equity upstream investments, the level of capital spend assumed is based on sanctioned field development plans and represents the activities required to access commercial reserves.
144 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 144 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 145 Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production profiles as inputs in to the value in use for the Production Enhancement Contracts, Risk Service Contracts and Equity Upstream Investments.
These economic models are revised annually as part of the preparation of the Groups five year business plans which are approved by the Board.
Management used forward curve oil prices at 30 June 2015 of US$66 per barrel for the year to 30 June 2016, US$71 per barrel for the year to 30 June 2017 and US$80 per barrel for July to December 2017 and long-term planning prices of US$85 per barrel for 2018 and US$90 per barrel for 2019 and beyond to determine reserve volumes 2014: US$61 per barrel for 2015 and US$69 per barrel for 2016, US$80 per barrel for 2017, US$85 per barrel for 2018 and US$90 per barrel for 2019 and beyond.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past in the markets in which the unit operates.
A growth rate of 2.5% per annum has been applied for businesses within the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit where the cash flows are not based on long-term contractual arrangements.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.6% per annum 2014: 11.6% per annum.
The discount rate is derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group and has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the Groups estimated equity market risk premium.
13 Intangible assets 2015 2014 US$m US$m Intangible oil and gas assets Cost: At 1 January 156 290 Additions 10 97 Assets related to increase in decommissioning provision note 26 47 Transfer to oil and gas assets note 10 73 264 Impairments note 5 7 5 Write off note 4b and note 4c 9 Net book value of intangible oil and gas assets at 31 December 86 156 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 53 60 Impairments note 5 4 Transfer to receivables 5 Exchange difference 3 At 31 December 48 53 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 23 20 Amortisation 4 5 Exchange difference 2 At 31 December 27 23 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 21 30 Total intangible assets 107 186 Intangible oil and gas assets Oil and gas assets part of the Integrated Energy Services segment additions comprise US$10m 2014: US$137m of capitalised expenditure on the Groups assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil and gas assets of US$17m 2014: US$119m in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
Transfers within intangible oil and gas assets represent transfers to oil and gas assets relating to block PM304 in Malaysia of US$73m 2014: US$236m and Ticleni PECs of US$28m note 10.
In 2014, the US$8m write off of intangible oil and gas assets was in respect of a dry well in Chergui and US$1m was in respect of Bowleven licence costs written off.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprising project development expenditure, customer contracts, proprietary software and patent technology are being amortised over their estimated economic useful life on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in cost of sales and selling, general and administration expenses note 4b and 4c.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 145 .
indd 145 07 03 2016 11:40 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Investments in associates joint ventures Joint Associates ventures Total US$m US$m US$m As at 1 January 2014 210 5 215 Loan made to Petrofac FPF1 Limited 13 13 Share of profits 4 3 7 Fair valuation gain on initial recognition of investment in associate note 4f 31 31 Transfer to available-for-sale investment note 15 185 185 Dividends received 7 3 10 As at 1 January 2015 66 5 71 Additions 1 1 Loan made to Petrofac FPF1 Limited 1 1 Share of profits 7 2 9 Fair valuation gain on initial recognition of investment in associate note 4f 1 1 Dividends received 6 3 9 As at 31 December 2015 69 5 74 Dividends received include US$5m received from PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited, US$3m received from TTE Petrofac Limited and US$1m receivable from PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited at 31 December 2015 2014: US$7m received from PetroFirst infrastructure Limited and US$3m received from TTE Petrofac Limited.
Included in share of profits is an impairment loss of US$1m relating to a reduction in scope of construction work at a training centre in Oman note 5.
In 2014, fair value gain of US$31m represented the increase in fair value of the remaining 20% share in PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited post disposal of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited note 4f.
Associates 2015 2014 US$m US$m PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited 29 28 Petrofac FPF1 Limited 40 38 69 66 Interest in associates Summarised financial information of PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited and Petrofac FPF1 Limited, based on their IFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Revenue 68 28 Cost of sales 17 Gross profit 51 28 Selling, general and administration expenses 8 Finance expense income, net 14 6 Profit 37 14 Groups share of profit for the year 7 4 Current assets 25 40 Non-current assets 562 595 Total assets 587 635 Current liabilities 17 20 Non-current liabilities 264 328 Total liabilities 281 348 Net assets 306 287 Groups share of net assets 69 66 Carrying amount of the investment 69 66 The associates had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
146 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 146 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 147 14 Investments in associates joint ventures continued Interest in joint ventures 1 Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on their IFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Revenue 25 35 Cost of sales 19 26 Gross profit 6 9 Selling, general and administration expenses 1 2 Finance expense income, net Profit before income tax 5 7 Income tax 1 1 Profit 4 6 Groups share of profit for the year 2 3 Current assets 14 20 Non-current assets 6 5 Total assets 20 25 Current liabilities 9 11 Non-current liabilities 1 4 Total liabilities 10 15 Net assets 10 10 Groups share of net assets 5 5 Carrying amount of the investment 5 5 1 A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 32.
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
The joint ventures cannot distribute their profits until they obtain consent from the venturers.
15 Available-for-sale investment On 15 April 2014, Seven Energy secured additional equity capital that resulted in dilution of the Companys interest in Seven Energy from 23.5% to 15.4%.
Following the dilution of ownership interest, the Group did not exercise significant influence over the activities of Seven Energy and as a result transferred the investment of US$185m from investment in associate to available-for-sale investment note 14.
During 2015, a reduction in fair value of US$16m has been recognised in other comprehensive income through reserve for unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial asset 2014: US$nil.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 147 .
indd 147 07 03 2016 11:40 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities 2015 2014 US$m US$m Other financial assets Classification Non-current Receivable under the Berantai RSC Fair value through profit and loss 303 343 Receivable from joint venture partners Loans and receivables 330 396 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges 78 50 Restricted cash Loans and receivables 41 1 752 790 Current Receivable under the Berantai RSC Fair value through profit and loss 54 38 Receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area Fair value through profit and loss 160 192 Receivable from joint venture partners Loans and receivables 155 150 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges 26 27 Forward currency contracts undesignated note 31 Fair value through profit and loss 12 Oil derivative note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges 12 20 Restricted cash Loans and receivables 36 8 455 435 Other financial liabilities Non-current Finance lease creditors note 28 Loans and borrowings 631 738 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges 28 18 659 756 Current Finance lease creditors note 28 Loans and borrowings 239 234 Contingent consideration payable Fair value through profit and loss 1 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges 66 74 Forward currency contracts undesignated note 31 Fair value through profit and loss 1 Oil derivative note 31 Designated as cash flow hedges Interest payable Fair value through profit and loss 30 8 336 317 The long-term and short-term receivables under the Berantai RSC represent the discounted value of amounts due under the contract which are being recovered over a six year period from 2013 in line with the contractual terms of the project.
The short-term receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area represents a loan made to the consortium partners to fund Petrofacs share of the development costs of the field.
The short-term and long-term receivable from joint venture partners represents the 70% gross up on the finance lease liability in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to block PM304 in Malaysia that are included 100% in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
This treatment is necessary to reflect the legal position of the Group as the contracting entity for this lease.
The Groups 30% share of this liability is US$208m 2014: US$234m.
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions and joint venture partners securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the Groups trading activities note 28.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
148 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 148 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 149 Fair value measurement The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Level 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant observable factors Level 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant unobservable market data Set out below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments as at: Level Carrying amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits Level 2 1,104 986 1,104 986 Restricted cash Level 2 77 9 77 9 Available-for-sale investment Level 3 169 185 169 185 Receivable under Berantai RSC Level 3 357 381 357 381 Receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area Level 3 160 192 160 192 Oil derivative Level 2 12 20 12 20 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 99 77 99 77 Kuwaiti Dinar forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 3 3 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 2 2 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 12 12 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes Level 2 745 743 750 750 Term Loan Level 2 499 498 500 500 Revolving credit facility Level 2 530 469 540 475 Export Credit Agency Funding Level 2 13 17 Bank overdrafts Level 2 3 9 3 9 Finance lease creditors Level 2 870 972 870 972 Contingent consideration Level 3 1 1 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 72 91 72 91 Malaysian Ringgit forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 18 18 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 3 1 3 1 Kuwaiti Dinar forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 1 1 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 1 1 The Group considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and noncurrent financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly foreign exchange forward contracts and oil derivatives.
Externally provided sources of quoted market prices have been used to determine the fair values of forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and oil derivatives.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease creditors are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 149 .
indd 149 07 03 2016 11:40 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities continued The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model.
The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about unobservable inputs to the model: the oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 5 and other significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the table below: 2015 2014 Internal rate of return 11.5% 11.5% Discount rate 6.0% 6.0% Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC is only sensitive to a reasonable change in the internal rate of return and the discount rate.
The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the receivable as a result of changes to these inputs: 2015 2014 US$m US$m 100 basis points decrease in the internal rate of return 19 1 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 2 2 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 2 2 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the receivable under Berantai RSC: 2015 2014 US$m US$m As at 1 January 381 476 Billings during the year 55 65 Fair value loss included in revenue 4 3 Fair value loss on contract receivables note 5 43 Unwinding of discount 8 20 Receipts during the year 83 134 As at 31 December 357 381 The fair value of the available-for-sale investment in Seven Energy has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model.
The oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 5: the risk adjusted cash flow projections are discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0% The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the available-for-sale investment as a result of changes to these inputs: 2015 2014 US$m US$m 10% decrease in the oil price per barrel 3 4 10% increase in the oil price per barrel 5 4 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 12 14 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 9 14 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the available-for-sale investment: 2015 2014 US$m US$m As at 1 January 185 Transferred from investment in associate 185 Fair value change note 15 16 As at 31 December 169 185 150 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 150 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 151 The fair value of the receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model that represents the value which management expects would be converted to oil and gas assets upon transfer of legal title of the licence on achieving first oil.
The oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 5: the risk adjusted cash flow projections are discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0%.
The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area as a result of changes to these inputs: 2015 2014 US$m US$m 10% decrease in the oil price per barrel 22 29 10% increase in the oil price per barrel 22 27 10% decrease in the gas price per mcf 26 30 10% increase in the gas price per mcf 27 30 6 month delay in production 45 8 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 16 17 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 15 19 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area: 2015 2014 US$m US$m As at 1 January 192 200 Advances during the year to the partners 182 199 Fair value loss note 5 214 207 As at 31 December 160 192 17 Inventories 2015 2014 US$m US$m Crude oil 4 3 Stores and raw materials 9 13 13 16 Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$106m 2013: US$43m.
18 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2015 2014 US$m US$m Cost and estimated earnings 19,517 15,892 Less: billings 17,723 14,290 Work in progress 1,794 1,602 Billings 1,589 5,638 Less: cost and estimated earnings 1,388 5,373 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 201 265 Total cost and estimated earnings 20,905 21,265 Total billings 19,312 19,928 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 151 .
indd 151 07 03 2016 11:40 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,224 1,680 Retentions receivables 349 344 Advances 262 275 Prepayments and deposits 38 47 Receivables from joint venture partners 100 196 Other receivables 151 241 2,124 2,783 Other receivables mainly consist of Value Added Tax recoverable of US$65m 2014: Value Added Tax recoverable of US$140m and US$34m receivable from PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited relating to disposal of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables totalling US$1,236m 2014: US$1,684m are as follows: 2015 2014 Specific General Specific General impairment impairment Total impairment impairment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2 2 4 4 1 5 Charge reversal for the year 10 1 9 1 1 Amounts written off 1 1 2 2 At 31 December 11 1 12 2 2 4 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Number of days past due Neither past due nor 30 3160 6190 91120 121360 360 impaired days days days days days days Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unimpaired 832 156 129 18 12 46 22 1,215 Impaired 6 9 6 21 832 156 129 18 18 55 28 1,236 Less: impairment provision 3 5 4 12 Net trade receivables 2015 832 156 129 18 15 50 24 1,224 Unimpaired 1,228 285 74 15 21 37 15 1,675 Impaired 1 1 1 4 2 9 1,228 285 75 16 22 41 17 1,684 Less: impairment provision 2 2 4 Net trade receivables 2014 1,228 285 75 16 22 39 15 1,680 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to externally prepared customer credit reports and the historic payment track records of the counterparties.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the Groups subcontractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Receivables from joint venture partners are amounts recoverable from venture partners on the Block PM304, Berantai RSC and on consortium contracts in the OEC segment.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, and will be largely paid in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
152 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 152 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 153 20 Cash and short-term deposits 2015 2014 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,102 899 Short-term deposits 2 87 Total cash and bank balances 1,104 986 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$1,104m 2014: US$986m.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,102 899 Short-term deposits 2 87 Bank overdrafts note 25 3 9 1,101 977 21 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2014: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 15 15 Issued and fully paid 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2014: 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 7 7 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$ 0.020 each at 1 January 2014 345,912,747 Issued during the year Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2015 345,912,747 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2015 345,912,747 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
Share premium: The balance on the share premium account represents the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve: The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregated nominal value of the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
22 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under the Groups employee share schemes, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2015 2014 Number US$m Number US$m At 1 January 4,985,937 101 5,672,691 110 Acquired during the year 2,800,000 39 1,000,000 25 Vested during the year 1,770,417 29 1,686,754 34 At 31 December 6,015,520 111 4,985,937 101 Shares vested during the year include dividend shares and 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger of 105,365 shares 2014: 102,514 shares.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 153 .
indd 153 07 03 2016 11:40 154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, share awards are granted to Executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the Group.
The shares vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined market and non-market-based performance conditions.
The 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group compared with an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 2015 2014 22 Mar 2013 18 Apr 2013 24 May 2013 2012 awards awards awards awards awards awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator Groups three-year volatilities 28.5% 32.7% 34.6% 34.7% 33.9% 38.0% Share price correlation with comparator group 26.4% 40.4% 44.0% 44.3% 42.0% 46.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.7% 1.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 562p 827p 692p 492p 571p 1,103p The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of the remaining 50% of the total award is subject to achieving between 7.5% and 15% earnings per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated, based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Under the DBSP selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Invested Award.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares, typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary.
At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until the Remuneration Committee has approved the portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the portion of the bonus to be settled in shares is determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the Matching Shares are recognised over the corresponding vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant with the charge adjusted to reflect the expected vesting rate of the plan.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Employees may invest up to sterling 1,800 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on an ad hoc basis.
The RSP is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The fair values of the awards granted under the RSP at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Value Creation Plan VCP During 2012 the Company introduced a one-off Value Creation Plan VCP which is a share option scheme for Executive Directors and key senior executives within the Company.
VCP is a premium priced share option scheme with options granted with an exercise price set at a 10% premium to the grant date price.
Options will only vest to the extent of satisfying Group and divisional profit after tax targets, together with various other performance underpins and risk malus provisions that can be imposed at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The share options would vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the original grant date but may be exercised up to eight years from the date of grant.
The VCP share options were fair valued by an independent valuer using a Black-Scholes option pricing model taking into account the rules of the plan and using the following key assumptions: Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Share price at the date of grant 1,555p 1,555p 1,555p Exercise price 1,710p 1,710p 1,710p Expected lives of the award 6 years 6.5 years 7 years Share price volatility 41% 41% 41% Share price dividend yield 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% Risk-free interest rates 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% Per share fair values 451p 467p 482p 154 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
The average share price of the Company shares during 2015 was US$12.84 sterling equivalent of 8.39 2014: US$19.19 sterling equivalent of 11.65.
The number of outstanding shares excludes the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger and dividend shares shown below: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number EnQuest 8% uplift 318 318 83 384 401 702 Dividend shares 105,633 72,514 358,476 202,781 13,527 14,873 477,636 290,168 Outstanding at 31 December 105,633 72,514 358,794 203,099 13,610 15,257 478,037 290,870 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 155 .
indd 155 07 03 2016 11:40 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Share-based payment plans continued The charge in respect of share-based payment plans recognised in the consolidated income statement is as follows: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share-based payment charge credit 21 19 2 3 23 22 Represents charge on Matching Shares only.
The Group has recognised a total charge of US$23m 2014: US$22m in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$23m of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2014 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2013 bonus of US$24m.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 94 to 97, 99 and 103 to 104 of the Directors remuneration report.
24 Other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on available-forNet unrealised Foreign Reserve for sale financial gains losses currency share-based asset on derivatives translation payments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 January 2014 28 29 64 63 Foreign currency translation 22 22 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 14 14 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 21 21 Share-based payments charge note 23 22 22 Transfer during the year note 23 24 24 Shares vested during the year 33 33 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2014 7 51 76 18 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 6 51 76 31 Non-controlling interests 13 13 Balance at 31 December 2014 7 51 76 18 Balance at 1 January 2015 7 51 76 18 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 11 11 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 47 47 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial asset 16 16 Share-based payments charge note 23 23 23 Transfer during the year note 23 23 23 Shares vested during the year 27 27 Balance at 31 December 2015 65 16 51 95 37 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 44 16 51 95 16 Non-controlling interests 21 21 Balance at 31 December 2015 65 16 51 95 37 Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges is included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net gains amounting to US$11m 2014: US$14m net gain relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales.
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains on undesignated derivatives amounting to US$3m 2014: US$10m have been recognised in cost of sales.
156 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 156 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 157 Net unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial asset This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group, net of deferred tax effects.
Realised gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised as other operating income or other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2014 of US$23m 2013 bonus of US$24m which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 23.
25 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Effective interest 2015 2014 1 Actual interest rate % Actual interest rate % rate % Maturity US$m US$m Current US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR US UK LIBOR Bank overdrafts i on demand 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 3 9 Term Loan iii US LIBOR 0.85% US LIBOR 0.85% US LIBOR 0.85% August 2016 500 Export Credit Agency Funding v US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% Refer note v 17 below 520 9 Non-current Senior notes ii 3.40% 3.40% 3.68% 3 years 750 750 Term Loan iii US LIBOR 0.85% US LIBOR 0.85% US LIBOR 0.85% n a 500 Revolving credit facility RCF iv US LIBOR 0.95% US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 0.95% 5 years 540 475 1,290 1,725 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 18 13 Discount on senior notes issuance 2 2 1,270 1,710 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,790 1,719 1 As at 31 December 2015.
Details of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US dollars and sterling denominations to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
ii Senior notes Petrofac has an outstanding aggregate principal amount of US$750m Senior Notes due in 2018 Notes.
The Group pays interest on the Notes at an annual rate equal to 3.40% of the outstanding principal amount.
Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with the Companys other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Petrofac International Ltd and Petrofac International UAE LLC irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, the due and prompt payment of all amounts at any time becoming due and payable in respect of the Notes.
The Guarantees are senior unsecured obligations of each Guarantor and will rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of each Guarantor.
iii Term Loan On 31 August 2014, Petrofac entered into a US$500m two year term loan facility with a syndicate of five international banks.
The facility, which matures on 31 August 2016, is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
Prior to 31 December 2015, the Term Loan lenders granted a waiver of the leverage covenant for the year ending 31 December 2015 as a result of which Petrofac was in compliance with its financial covenant obligations for that period.
The loan was fully drawn as of 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: US$500m.
Interest is payable on the facility at US LIBOR 0.85%.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 157 .
indd 157 07 03 2016 11:40 158 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued iv Revolving Credit Facility Petrofac has a US$1,200m five year committed revolving credit facility with a syndicate of international banks, which is available for general corporate purposes.
The facility, which was signed on 11 September 2012, was amended and extended in June 2015 and will now mature on 2 June 2020.
The facility is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
Prior to 31 December 2015, the facility lenders granted a waiver of the leverage covenant for the year ending 31 December 2015 as a result of which Petrofac was in compliance with its financial covenant obligations for that period.
As at 31 December 2015, US$540m was drawn under this facility 31 December 2014: US$475m.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance of the facility at US LIBOR 0.95% and in addition utilisation fees are payable depending on the level of utilisation.
v Export Credit Agency funding On 26 February 2015, Petrofac entered into a US$58m, 14 year term loan facility guaranteed by the Italian Export Credit Agency SACE.
On 30 July 2015, Petrofac entered into a US$108m term loan facility guaranteed by the UK Export Credit Agency UKEF, on substantially the same terms as the SACE facility.
The two facilities are linked to the procurement of certain goods and services from Italian and UK exporters, respectively, in connection with the construction of the Petrofac JSD6000 vessel.
Repayment of the loans was intended to commence from the date of delivery of the vessel.
Following the termination of the vessel construction contract, the facilities are not currently available for drawing and Petrofac is in discussions with the two Export Credit Agencies to amend the facilities and agree a revised date for the commencement of repayments.
Petrofac cannot be certain that these discussions will result in agreement with the two ECAs, in which case the facilities will be terminated and no further drawings will be made.
As at 31 December 2015, US$17m was drawn under the SACE facility 31 December 2014: US$nil.
No drawings have been made under the UKEF facility.
26 Provisions Other long-term employment Provision for Other benefits provision decommissioning provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 71 136 6 213 Additions during the year 19 47 66 Paid in the year 11 11 Exchange difference 1 1 Unwinding of discount 6 6 At 1 January 2015 79 189 5 273 Additions during the year 22 45 2 69 Paid in the year 7 7 Revision of estimates 8 8 Unwinding of discount 4 4 At 31 December 2015 94 230 7 331 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in the United Arab Emirates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment based on their final salary and number of years service.
The long-term employment benefits provision is based on an internally produced end of service benefits valuation model with the key underlying assumptions being as follows: Senior Other employees employees Average number of years of future service 5 3 Average annual % salary increases 6% 4% Discount factor 5% 5% Senior employees are those earning a base of salary of over US$96,000 per annum.
Discount factor used is the local Dubai five-year Sukuk rate.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the sites at the PM304 field in Malaysia, Chergui in Tunisia and Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico.
Additions during the year of US$40m were in relation to Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 4.28% on PM304 2014: 4.28%, 6.0% on Chergui 2014: 6.00% and 6.18% on Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts 2014: 5.38%.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as a finance cost note 6.
The Group estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2026 on PM304, 2031 on Chergui, 2033 on Santuario and Magallanes, 2040 on Arenque and 2039 on Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts.
Other provisions This represents amounts set aside to cover claims against the Group which will be settled via the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
158 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 158 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 159 27 Trade and other payables 2015 2014 US$m US$m Trade payables 485 564 Advances received from customers 1,102 975 Accrued expenses 772 921 Other taxes payable 34 46 Other payables 117 164 2,510 2,670 Advances received from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Other payables mainly consist of retentions held against subcontractors of US$71m 2014: US$78m and amounts payable to joint venture partners of US$23m 2014: US$35m.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
28 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the Group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had letters of credit of US$7m 2014: US$10m and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds of US$4,974m 2014: US$4,211m against which the Group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$37m 2014: US$9m.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$3,592m 2014: US$2,276m.
These commitments consist of future obligations either to acquire or to sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 31.
Leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Within one year 29 25 After one year but not more than five years 56 69 More than five years 60 74 145 168 Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of office buildings in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$86m 2014: US$115m.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$47m 2014: US$44m.
Long-term finance lease commitments are as follows: Future minimum lease payments Finance cost Present value US$m US$m US$m Oil and gas facilities and plant and equipment The commitments are as follows: Within one year 350 111 239 After one year but not more than five years 653 203 450 More than five years 233 52 181 1,236 366 870 The finance leased assets mainly comprise oil and gas facilities in Berantai RSC and Block PM304 in Malaysia and the lease term for these leases range between four to nine years.
The above finance lease commitments include 70% gross up of US$485m 2014: US$546m on finance leases in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to block PM304 in Malaysia, which is necessary to reflect the legal position of the Group as the contracting entity for these leases.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 159 .
indd 159 07 03 2016 11:40 160 160 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Commitments and contingencies continued 28 Commitments and contingencies continued Capital commitments Capital commitments At 31 December 2015, the Group had capital commitments of US$500m 2014: US$1,034m excluding the above lease commitments.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had capital commitments of US$500m 2014: US$1,034m excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the US$500m of commitments are: Included in the US$500m of commitments are: 2015 2014 US$m US$m 2015 2014 US$m US$m Building of the Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel 93 392 Building of the Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel 93 392 Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico 3 229 Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico 3 229 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 240 192 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 240 192 Costs in respect of Ithaca Greater Stella Field development in the North Sea 164 193 Costs in respect of Ithaca Greater Stella Field development in the North Sea 164 193 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new training centre in Oman 28 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new training centre in Oman 28 29 Related party transactions 29 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 32.
Petrofac Limited is the The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 32.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed owed Amounts Amounts related from by related to related Sales to Purchases owed owed parties related parties parties parties related from by related to related US$m US$m US$m US$m parties related parties parties parties US$m US$m US$m US$m Joint ventures 2015 Joint ventures 2015 2014 1 3 2014 1 3 Associates 2015 2 1 Associates 2015 2 1 2014 1 2014 1 Key management personnel interests 2015 Key management personnel interests 2015 2014 2014 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Compensation of key management personnel Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 90 to 106. and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 90 to 106.
2015 2014 US$m US$m 2015 2014 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 9 12 Short-term employee benefits 9 12 Share-based payments 1 3 Share-based payments 1 3 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 11 16 11 16 30 Accrued contract expenses 30 Accrued contract expenses 2015 2014 US$m US$m 2015 2014 US$m US$m Accrued contract expenses 1,162 743 Accrued contract expenses 1,162 743 Reserve for contract losses 71 57 Reserve for contract losses 71 57 1,233 800 1,233 800 The 2015 reserve for contract losses includes provision to cover costs in excess of revenues on the Laggan-Tormore contract of US$48m 2014: The 2015 reserve for contract losses includes provision to cover costs in excess of revenues on the Laggan-Tormore contract of US$48m 2014: US$27m and provision for an onerous contract of US$12m relating to Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania of which US$6m has US$27m and provision for an onerous contract of US$12m relating to Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania of which US$6m has been provided during the year 2014: US$30m.
been provided during the year 2014: US$30m.
In 2015, an onerous contract provision of US$2m in relation to a reduction in scope of construction work at a training centre in Oman has been In 2015, an onerous contract provision of US$2m in relation to a reduction in scope of construction work at a training centre in Oman has been recognised in IES segment and an onerous leasehold property provision of US$9m relating to vacant leasehold office buildings at Quattro House and recognised in IES segment and an onerous leasehold property provision of US$9m relating to vacant leasehold office buildings at Quattro House and Bridge View in Aberdeen, UK for which their leases expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively has been recognised in Offshore Projects & Operations note Bridge View in Aberdeen, UK for which their leases expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively has been recognised in Offshore Projects & Operations note 5.
160 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 160 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 161 31 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, amounts due from to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally forward currency contracts in line with the Groups hedging policies.
The Group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the Group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 84 to 89.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point point point point increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2015 7 7 31 December 2014 9 9 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets that are subject to interest rate risk: Year ended 31 December 2015 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 25 3 3 Term loans note 25 500 540 1,040 Export Credit Agency funding note 25 17 17 520 540 1,060 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 20 1,104 1,104 Restricted cash balances note 16 36 41 77 1,140 41 1,181 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 161 .
indd 161 07 03 2016 11:40 162 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended 31 December 2014 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 25 9 9 Term loans note 25 500 475 975 9 500 475 984 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 20 986 986 Restricted cash balances note 16 8 1 9 994 1 995 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs, effective interest rate adjustments and discount on senior notes of US$20m 2014: US$15m.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US dollar reporting currency of the Group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US dollar terms, of the Group totals.
2015 2014 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 19.4% 26.5% Costs 47.8% 56.5% Current financial assets 18.0% 33.6% Non-current financial assets 0.0% 0.0% Current financial liabilities 24.9% 36.4% Non-current financial liabilities 0.0% 1.3% The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US dollars: 2015 2014 Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Sterling 1.53 1.47 1.65 1.55 Kuwaiti dinar 3.32 3.29 3.51 3.42 Euro 1.11 1.09 1.33 1.21 The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US 10% US 10% US 10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2015 24 24 53 53 31 December 2014 9 9 85 85 162 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 162 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 163 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December, the Group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro purchases 997 643 27 14 31 22 Sterling purchases sales 225 394 11 1 1 10 3 Kuwaiti dinar sales 1,095 313 2 8 Saudi Riyal purchases 38 Malaysia Ringgit purchases 115 18 22 Yen sales 3 3 11 10 15 55 25 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2016 and June 2019 2014: between January 2015 and June 2019.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with net unrealised losses of US$3m 2014: US$2m loss as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro cash and short-term deposits 17 22 3 2 During 2015, changes in fair value loss of US$64m 2014: gains US$50m relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and losses of US$13m 2014: US$8m gain were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on undesignated derivatives of US$3m 2014: US$10m were recognised in the income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil and gas.
The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecast production data is available.
During the year the Group entered into various crude oil swaps hedging oil production of 754,097 barrels bbl 2014: 608,999 bbl with maturities ranging from May 2016 to September 2016.
In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 39,292 metric tonnes MT 2014: 46,260MT with maturities from May 2016 to September 2016.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$12m 2014: US$20m asset with net unrealised gains deferred in equity of US$12m 2014: US$20m gain.
During the year, US$24m gain 2014: US$6m gain was recycled from equity into the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions and a gain in the fair value recognised in equity of US$17m 2014: US$27m gain.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 30 30 30 30 US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2015 24 24 31 December 2014 18 18 For sensitivity relating to the impact of changes in the oil price on other financial assets, refer to pages 150 and 151. Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC evaluate the creditworthiness of each individual third-party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2015, the Groups five largest customers accounted for 46.5% of outstanding trade receivables, retention receivables, work in progress, receivable under Berantai RSC and receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 2014: 48.7%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term receivables from customers including the Berantai RSC and Greater Stella Area projects, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 163 .
indd 163 07 03 2016 11:40 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Risk management and financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to support future growth.
Our strategy includes the provision of financial capital and the potential impact on the Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
The Group is not exposed to any external capital constraints.
The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 Contractual 612 12 25 undiscounted Carrying 6 months months years years More than cash flows amount or less US$m US$m US$m US$m 5 years US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 500 1,290 1,810 1,790 Finance lease creditors 237 113 214 439 233 1,236 870 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,323 51 1,374 1,374 Due to related parties 1 1 1 Derivative instruments 53 14 21 7 95 95 Interest payments 24 23 29 33 109 1,658 701 264 1,769 233 4,625 4,130 Year ended 31 December 2014 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than Carrying undiscounted or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 9 500 1,225 1,734 1,719 Finance lease creditors 225 118 243 542 326 1,454 972 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,307 342 1,649 1,649 Due to related parties 3 3 3 Contingent consideration 1 1 1 Derivative instruments 47 24 13 8 92 92 Interest payments 25 25 49 62 161 1,616 510 805 1,837 326 5,094 4,436 The Group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Cash and short-term deposits 1,104 986 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 1,790 1,719 Net debt B 686 733 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 1,230 1,861 Loss profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 349 120 Gross gearing ratio A C 145.5% 92.4% Net gearing ratio B C 55.8% 39.4% Shareholders return on investment D C 28.4% 6.4% 164 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 164 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 165 32 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements At 31 December 2015, the Group had investments in the following active subsidiaries and joint arrangements: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2015 2014 Active subsidiaries Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 K W Limited England 100 100 Oilennium Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Contracting Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 100 TNEI Services Limited England 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 1 1 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 100 PT.
Petrofac IKPT International Indonesia 51 51 1 1 Petrofac Integrated Energy Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPF004 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac GSA Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac JSD 6000 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70 70 PFMAP Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 SPD Well Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 165 .
indd 165 07 03 2016 11:40 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2015 2014 Active subsidiaries continued H&L SPD Americas S. fide R. L. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Servicios SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Operadora fide Campos del Noreste S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Global Employment B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Cooperatief U.
A. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Treasury B. V. Netherlands 100 100 PTS B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan Ventures B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Nigeria B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Norge B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Oman B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Energy Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 2 2 Petrofac International Nigeria Limited Nigeria 40 40 Petrofac Holdings AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S. R. L Romania 100 100 2 2 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 100 100 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Company Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 100 SPD Limited Scotland 100 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 1 1 Petrofac South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Emirates LLC note 11 United Arab Emirates 75 75 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 2 2 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 49 49 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC United States 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Inc. United States 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. United States 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 100 166 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 166 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements 167 Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Country of Name of joint arrangement Principal activities incorporation 2015 2014 Joint Arrangements Joint ventures Costain Petrofac Limited Engineering, procurement and construction England 50 50 management services TTE Petrofac Limited Operation and management of a training Jersey 50 50 centre China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Consultancy for Petroleum and chemical Netherlands 49 49 Cooperatif U.
A. engineering Takatuf Petrofac Oman LLC Construction, operation and management Oman 40 40 of a training centre Operation of service centre providing Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company Saudi Arabia 50 50 mechanical services to oil and gas industry Joint operations 3 3 PetroAlfa Servicios Integrados fide Energia SAPI fide CV Services to oil and gas industry Mexico 50 50 4 4 Petro-SPM Integrated Services S. A. fide C. V. Production enhancement for Pnuco Mexico 50 50 5 5 Bechtel Petrofac JV Engineering, procurement and construction Unincorporated 35 15 management of a project in UAE 5 5 NGL 4 JV EPC for a project in UAE Unincorporated 45 45 Petrofac Black & Veatch JV Tendering and execution of a project in 5 5 Kazakhstan Unincorporated 80 80 5 5 Petrofac Bonatti JV EPC for a project in Algeria Unincorporated 70 70 5 5 Petrofac Daelim JV EPC for a project in Oman Unincorporated 50 50 5 5 Petrofac ETAP JV Oil and gas exploration and production from Unincorporated 45 45 Chergui concession PM304 JV Oil and gas exploration and production in 5 5 Malaysia Unincorporated 30 30 5 5 Oil and gas exploration and production in Berantai JV Unincorporated 51 51 Malaysia 5 5 Petrofac Samsung CB&I CFP EPC for a project in Kuwait Unincorporated 47 47 Please note that only active companies are shown in the above tables.
All dormant companies have been omitted.
1 Directly held by Petrofac Limited.
2 Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
3 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement, whereby the activities of the arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the venturers, this indicates that the venturers have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets of the arrangement.
4 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers to be jointly and severally liable for performance under Pnuco ISC.
5 The unincorporated arrangement between the venturers is a joint arrangement as, contractually, all the decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent by the venturers and all unincorporated joint arrangements are included in the Groups results as joint operations.
The Companys interest in joint ventures is disclosed on page 147.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 167 .
indd 167 07 03 2016 11:40 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 169 Company income statement 169 Company statement of other comprehensive income 170 C ompany statement of financial position 171 C ompany statement of cash flows 172 Company statement of changes in equity 173 Notes to the Company financial statements 168 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
