Our Financials division See our website www.
com for more on our acquisitions in 2015 Acquisition adds new capability In May 2015 Playtech was Benefits of the transaction I am delighted to announce pleased to announce the the acquisition of Markets The acquisition represents the best entry point into the growing online acquisition of Markets Limited, Limited which provides entry CFDs industry, which is regulated and an online CFDs broker and into a highly complementary complementary to the Groups existing trading platform provider.
new market vertical where business.
our combined operational Markets Limited is an established, The acquisition gives Playtech access superiority will enable exciting profitable and growing online CFDs to the positive growth trends in this broker and trading platform provider, dynamic sector and helps to diversify growth opportunities.
offering services in more than 100 Playtechs earnings by product, countries and in over 25 languages geography and customer base In addition to being through three principal business and improve its quality of earnings.
immediately and significantly The sector remains somewhat earnings enhancing, the fragmented and this is likely to give Rapidly growing vertical payment terms for the rise to further acquisition opportunities.
Markets Limited provides customers acquisition are weighted with a trading platform for CFDs trading As part of the acquisition, Playtech towards future financial with its principal B2C brand being secured a highly experienced Markets.
In addition, Markets performance of the business.
management team who, through Limited provides a turnkey offering, their retained shareholding in Markets Markets Limiteds proven including a white-label solution, for Limited, are directly aligned with the management team has a B2B clients, in return for a revenue interests of Playtech to drive the growth share.
Markets Limited is licensed and strong cultural fit with our of the business in the coming years.
regulated in the EU and South Africa.
business and is incentivised to stay with the enlarged Group.
Markets Limited employs over 500 staff globally, with offices in five countries.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, Playtech 20 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Acquisition highlights Compelling opportunity to enter Experienced management team, growing and complementary with a proven track record, who vertical driven by similar core will remain with the business competencies Consideration at attractive Directly in line with Playtechs multiple of up to 8x adjusted strategy to acquire profitable, EBITDA regulated, highly cash generative businesses with market-leading Acquisition immediately positions significantly earnings enhancing Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 21
