14 Premier Farnell 0.1 Engineering customers Meeting the needs of engineers is at the core of our business proposition, making up the majority of element14 sales through the high service distribution of electronic components in relatively small quantities, as well as related equipment, tools, software and services.
Partnering with engineering customersglobally Engineers from all over the world, serving a wide range of industries, choose to partner with element14.
These customers range from electronics design engineers to those engaged in maintenance and repair of existing electronics.
At the core of this relationship is our capability to meet engineering customers five key service requirements: 1.
Availability of an extensive range of products 2.
Real time product data and information 3.
Ease of doing business and 5.
Reliable and timely shipment We are enriching our capabilities and the customer experience in each of the five areas.
Our aim to partner more closely with a greater number of engineers is central to us delivering profitable growth.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 15 16 Premier Farnell 0.1 Engineering customers continued Beyond physical products, we see the Enhancing our product range Trusted, technical expertise distribution of engineering software as Providing easy access to a wide range The technical nature of the products an area of increasing importance to our of in-stock products is at the heart that we sell and the applications for customers and, for us, an opportunity of our role as a high service electronics which they are used makes product for profitable growth.
We offer over 600,000 in stock information highly valuable to our CadSoft in 2009, a business which products, available for same day shipment.
The information that produces printed circuit board layout These products range from semiconductors customers require includes the products software, we are now focused on the and passive components, too small to key features and capabilities, sensitivity launch of an online software licensing count individually, through to larger items to different environments and also any store by evolving the element14 Design such as tools and testing equipment.
The Center launched this year.
The software adoption by the European Union of the store will offer products for download We aim to carry everything that our Restriction of Hazardous Substances from a range of software vendors.
RoHS directive in 2003 acted as a In 2014 15, we achieved our product catalyst for the Group to enhance the linefill target of 97%.
This means that data provided to customers, especially During 2014 15, we have 97% of the time we have the products in through its online resources, and we signed a number of franchise stock and available for same day shipment are now viewed as a trusted source agreements with key software that our customers are looking to buy.
partners, including ARM Over the past two years, we have made On our transactional websites, we and Altium.
incremental inventory investments to have over 260,000 unique product enhance our product range, of which datasheets, providing key technical A personalised customer experience over 20m is targeted at engineering information, which receive more than Benefiting from the insights of a customers.
With this inventory 550,000 downloads per week.
Our dedicated in-house customer and investment complete, we are focused product experts update more than market research capability, we are on driving turns on this enhanced 18,000 product datasheets per developing a personalised experience product offering.
month, working in partnership with which considers the requirements of our suppliers so that our engineering engineering customers varying job customers have access to complete As part of the inventory roles, industries and environments, and up-to-date information.
This as well as the differences across investment, we added over resource is supplemented by 24 5 geographic regions.
2,000 development kits and live chat online technical support and dedicated field application engineers evaluation boards.
An important aspect is the way that who work closely with customers to we interact with customers through bring new products to market.
These products are strategically our range of sales and marketing important to us as their sales signal channels as we see that customers The element14 community is another the commencement of design activity often choose to interact with us through important source of information for and flag an opportunity for us to partner multiple channels depending on what engineers.
With over 300,000 registered with customers from the outset of their they are looking to achieve.
For example, members, the Community is a place design process all the way through a large customer account might have a where engineers from around the globe prototyping and into production.
regular review with a field sales person, can come together to discuss solutions a dedicated contact at one of our call to their technical problems, share ideas In addition, our work with component centres and an integrated eProcurement and experiences of different products manufacturers, described on page 20 system for day-to-day order processing and interact with suppliers and experts.
and 21, is seeing us become a significant by the engineering team.
This combination During the course of 2014 15, we have partner in the launch of their latest of channels makes it easier for our further improved this resource with technologies.
Access to the latest customers to do business, a key the launch of the element14 Design products is differentiating for engineering source of differentiation for element14.
The Design Center is an online customers, especially for electronics workspace where engineers can access design engineers, as they look to benefit the latest development kits and tools.
from the added capability and efficiency Since the Design Center was launched that new technology frequently brings.
in June 2014, it has received over 40,000 visits per week.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 17 Our multichannel sales and marketing The web provides a digital shop window Delivering to promise approach is centred on the web with sales that plays an important role in attracting Every day, we receive in the region of via eCommerce channels contributing to new customers as well as helping us 30,000 orders through our sales teams 49.3% of total MDD revenues.
Our online to personalise the user experience.
and global websites which equates to resources include transactional websites Growing the business transacted online over 75,000 lines of product globally.
in over 30 languages, eProcurement also enables us to eliminate inefficient These orders are then processed by one solutions andthe industry leading manual practices, reduce the opportunity of our 11 distribution centres, with the element14 Community.
for error, and free up resource to focus principal sites in the UK, Belgium and on value-add activities for customers North Carolina, USA.
Many engineering customers prefer and suppliers.
ordering online as they benefit from Efficient processes mean that the information resources that can be Pricing to market 99.95% of the time the order provided through this channel.
Over A typical order placed with us comprises is shipped same day.
the past year, we have increased the about three to four lines and has an number of images with 360 degree average order value of approximately Our regional distribution model enables visualisations on technical products 170 in Europe and Asia or $430 in us to deliver to promise time and again.
such as development kits and test North America.
Yet there remains scope to further equipment.
In addition to contributing enhance the effectiveness of our supply to the customer experience, the Despite the relatively small order size, chain as we leverage our regional increased data provided on products pricing does remain one of the factors resources globally, share best practice helps to optimise online search engine considered by engineering customers and enable greater inventory visibility for performance and attract new customers.
This is an opportunity business conducted online and in an that we will continue to address through economic environment characterised This year, we completed the the transformation of the element14 by slow growth, price perception has single largest IT systems business in 2015 16. become more important to customers development ever undertaken over recent years.
In response to this Building our business with changing market circumstance, we at Premier Farnell by engineering customers have been developing our approach to implementing our new global By providing a competitive proposition pricing that sees us maintaining a price web platform across the that meets customers changing competitive solution, whilst seeking to behaviour, we expect that the element14 business.
extract the value-add that our high engineering customer base will remain service proposition provides in the core of our business and a future eachmarket.
By moving to a single global web growth opportunity.
Through the platform, we now benefit from more investments made to enhance our Through the course of 2014 15, we used efficient and faster processes as we offering this year, especially in our eCommerce tools, data and analytics rollout global marketing programmes developing considerable technical to dynamically adjust our pricing to and tailor our offering to the individual expertise, element14 is now better the prevailing market levels.
Given the needs of customers.
Additionally, we positioned to benefit from a number of considerable fluctuations in currency can now specify, develop and implement growth drivers in electronics including seen in the period, especially in relation future enhancements far more quickly, our early visibility of coming soon to the US dollar and the Euro, we have such as the better mobile experience technologies, the developing internet of aimed to ensure that our European and which is planned to go-live in 2015 16, things, shortening product lifecycles and Asia propositions maintained their and the new web platform also helps to growth in emerging markets.
provide better protection against cyber actions taken to transform element14 security risk.
Customer reaction to the into a global business, as well as the As part of our engineering customer new web platform has been positive and completed rollout of the new global web proposition, we offer a range of private the performance of our transactional platform will allow for greater leveraging label brands of more than 70,000 sites has met our expectations through of our regional resources and a superior products, providing customers with a this transitional period.
value range for commodity products which frequently form part of their order.
These are high quality and high margin products that represent good value for money alternatives for customers.
