140 Premier Farnell Accounting policies to the Company financial statements Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Theaddress of the Companys registered office is Farnell House, ForgeLane, Leeds LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered number is 876412.
These Company financial statements have been approved by the Boardof Directors on 24 April 2015.
Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company have been prepared under thehistorical cost convention, with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are recognised at fair value, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
Thefinancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
Asummary of the more important accounting policies of the Company, which the Directors consider to be the most appropriate, is set out below and they have been applied consistently throughout the year.
The Company has not been required to adopt any new accounting standards or interpretations during the year that have asignificant impact on the Companys financial results.
The financial year ended 1 February 2015 was a 52 week period financial year ended 2 February 2014: 52 week period.
Cash flow statement The cash flows of the Group are included in the consolidated cash flow statement of Premier Farnell plc, which is set out on page 96 of this document.
Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 Cash flow statements not to publish a cash flow statement.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3 b of FRS 8 Related party disclosures not to disclose transactions with other Group companies.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet dateand the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit andloss account.
Retirement benefits Employees of the Company are able to participate in the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme, comprising both a defined benefit and a defined contribution plan.
The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
Defined benefit plan The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets andliabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as permitted by FRS 17, accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan.
The consolidated financial statements include full disclosures of the UK defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 note 26.
Defined contribution plan Payments to the defined contribution plan are charged as an expense asthey fall due.
Deferred taxation Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation resulting from timing differences between the profits computed for taxation purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that there is an obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Deferred tax is provided at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments Under FRS 25, the Companys cumulative, convertible, redeemable preference shares are required to be split into debt and equity components with the preference dividend being reclassified as a finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the shares, based on the discounted cash flows of the instrument to the date of maturity, and is then increased each year on an amortised cost basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption amount Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 141 payable on maturity of the shares.
On purchase and cancellation of preference shares by the Company, a gain or loss isrecognised in the profit and loss account based on the difference between the book value and fair value of the financial liability element of the instrument at the date of purchase.
The difference between the book value and fair value of theequity element of the instrument is recognised as a movement intheprofit and loss account.
In addition, a transfer is made to nondistributable reserves from profit and loss account in order to maintain the legalnominal value of share capital.
The accounting for the Companys preference shares in accordance with FRS 25 is identical tothat under IAS 32, further details for which are given in note16 totheconsolidated financial statements.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Companydoes not have or issue speculative derivative arrangements.
Alltransactions in financial instruments are matched toan underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised atfair value.
At period ends, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised in profit and loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policyon hedging.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based upon market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of short term deposits, loans and overdrafts with maturities of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
The fair value of the Companys US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notesisbased on discounted cash flows using a discount rate forsimilar instruments.
The fair value of the Companys preference shares is based on the quoted market price.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of afinancial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the sameperiod s during which the income expense is recognised.
For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The Company operates five equity settled, share-based incentive schemes: an Executive Share Option Plan, a Performance Share Plan, aRestricted Share Plan, a Deferred Share Bonus Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
These are accounted forinaccordance with FRS 20, Share-based Payments.
For incentives granted to employees of Premier Farnell plc, an expense is required toberecognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
Theexpense is based on the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using appropriate option pricing models.
The expense is credited toreserves.
For incentives granted to employees of Group companies other than Premier Farnell plc, the cost for share-based incentives, again based on the fair value of each instrument at grant date, is treated as an increase in investments, withthe corresponding credit being made directly to reserves.
All of the Groups share-based incentives have non-market based performance measures earnings per share or return on sales, for whichthe Black Scholes model is used and the value of the expense isadjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The fair value of SAYE grants is calculated using the Black Scholes model and the expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures.
Called up share capital Called up share capital is classified as equity and dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
Shares in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Provision ismade where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution invalue has occurred.
Intangible assets and amortisation Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Intangible assets acquired are capitalised at cost, and are amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over their useful economic lives.
