18 Premier Farnell 0.2 Manufacturing customers Manufacturing customers, are engaged in the production phase of electronics manufacturing andrequire components as part of their scheduled production run.
As described on page 5, the total electronics marketplace is worth over 300 billion annually.
The vast majority of this marketplace is in the production phase of electronics manufacturing, a market which has historically been supported either directly by the component manufacturers or through volume distribution.
With increasingly shortening production runs, and greater technical support and knowledge widely available due to the rise of the internet, the lines between volume and high service distribution are increasingly blurring.
Our strategy opens an estimated 20 billion incremental addressable market to the element14 business as we target small production runs by supporting innovation from design into prototyping then production.
Manufacturing customers are not new to us and account for approximately 20% of our element14 sales.
Whilst we have long supported these customers at the early prototyping phase, especially in the UK and North America, we have not focused heavily on this area in the past.
We are confident that with a more competitive proposition, we can successfully and profitably grow our business with these customers.
Manufacturing customers largely benefit from our proposition to meet the needs of engineers.
In addition, we have made substantial progress in 2014 15 to meet manufacturing customers specific product requirements and preferred ways to do business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 19 Investments in production inventory This means that it provides the high level Having completed the rollout Manufacturing customers typically want of product traceability required by the of our new web platform, we to purchase board components in the aerospace industry.
We are now looking will now begin to implement packaging options that enable them to to take the AS9120 standard to Europe upgrades to our websites be loaded directly onto the automated as we see this as increasingly important assembly equipment on their production to customers in other regions too.
Further targeted at production customers.
This contrasts with our engineering best practice is coming soon to the industry customers who are looking to order in terms of new anti-counterfeiting For example, we will implement a products in small quantities for design, standards.
We will be looking to be a bill of material upload function which testing or repair purposes.
leader in implementing such standards will allow customers to automatically across the globe as we build on our cross-check their shopping list against Over the past two years, we have invested position as a trusted source for electronics.
our inventory and receive an immediate over 15m in incremental inventory quote.
We will also provide customers targeted at the production space.
Enhancing the buyer experience with real-time stocking information, such The relationship with manufacturing as packaging options, availability of date customers will typically be with a and lot traceability and product lead Today, we have a compelling purchasing professional, especially times.
Buyers will also soon be able to range of production inventory whenthey are conducting small schedule and reschedule orders online, in stock featuring over 40,000 production runs.
With many of the providing the flexibility needed to ensure criticalenhancements to the production full reel products.
their order is delivered just-in-time for proposition completed behind their planned production runs.
thescenes, we are now focused on Enabling product traceability delivering a leading experience for our Having full traceability of the product Building our business with buyer customers and communicating source is another key requirement for manufacturing customers what we now offer.
many of our manufacturing customers.
Over the past two years, we have Traceability of the product date and made substantial investments to build Achieving a competitive price is critical lot code is particularly important a compelling production proposition to winning larger orders.
We made for customers in industries such for manufacturing customers.
As we a substantial change to our pricing as aerospace, defence and certain focus on attracting new manufacturing proposition this year by introducing government related sectors.
customers to our offering and drive additional price breaks in Europe for improved turns on the incremental customers looking to purchase stock We have implemented systems and inventory, we expect to achieve a inhigher volumes.
These additional processes to allow us to trace certain returnon these investments over pricebreaks have increased the date and lot codes on over 300,000 the medium term.
competitiveness of our offer and price products while our South Carolina perception for production customers warehouse has been operating the coming to us via online channels.
AS9120 standard for the past six years.
