128 Premier Farnell Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Businesses acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions On 17 April 2014, the Group acquired the trade and assets of AVID Technologies Inc AVID, a full service product developmentbusiness.
This strategic acquisition enhances the Groups technology capability at the front end of the electronics design cycle, supporting suppliers new product introduction strategies and extending the Groups business model.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for the trade and assets of AVID and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Inventory 0.3 Trade and other receivables 0.7 Trade and other payables 0.7 Total identifiable net assets 0.3 Goodwill 7.4 Total 7.7 Total consideration cash 7.7 Acquisition costs of 0.1 million have been charged to operating expenses in the consolidated income statement for the current financial year ended 1 February 2015, and have been included as an adjusting item separately disclosed on the face of the income statement note 2.
The fair value of trade and other receivables acquired was 0.7 million and included trade receivables with a fair value of 0.6 million.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due was 0.6 million.
No other material assets or liabilities were separately identified.
The goodwill of 7.4 million arising from the acquisition, which cannot be directly attributed to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is underpinned by a number of elements, including the strategic premium attributed to the existing, well-positioned business, highly skilled workforce and established reputation in the electronics design and product development sector.
Other elements of this goodwill include the strengthening and expansion of the Groups strategic customer and supplier proposition, the opportunity to leverage the insights from AVIDs design opportunities to support the Groups strategic programmes within its distribution businesses and the scope to develop AVIDs customer base through the existing Service Agreement relationships the Group has with certain suppliers.
All of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The trading results of AVID for the period since acquisition, and also for the period since the start of the financial year had the acquisition taken place on that date, are not material to the Groups results.
Acquisitions in prior year On 13 September 2013, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Reach Engineering LLC Reach, a specialist in custom electronic systems to the emergency and industrial vehicles market.
Contingent consideration of 0.7 million relates to goodwill attributable to the future profitability of the business, and is dependent on the sales performance of specific Reach products, primarily within the next fouryears.
Cash consideration of less than 0.1 million was payable in relation to the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
