Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 97 Accounting policies Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Theaddress of the Companys registered office is Farnell House, ForgeLane, Leeds LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered number is 876412.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors on 24 April 2015.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs andInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as referred to in the Directors Report on page 61, and under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments which are recognised at fair value through profit and loss.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies adopted in the preparation ofthe consolidated financial statements is set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations effective for the year ended 1 February 2015 There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective that have a material impact on the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the year ended 1 February 2015 not early adopted There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on theGroup.
Key sources of estimation and uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts ofrevenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the Accounting Policies and Notes to theconsolidated financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below: The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities are: The estimation of the cost of pensions and other post-employment benefits note 26 : The estimation of the net realisable value of inventory note 12 : The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill used when assessing goodwill for impairment note 8 : The estimation of vesting conditions in the calculation of cost of share-based payments note 21 : and The estimation of deferred tax note 18.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of the Company and each of its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 1 February 2015, a 52 week period financial year ended 2 February 2014: 52 week period.
Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the control commences until the date that control ceases.
Consistent accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
A list of principal trading subsidiaries of the Group is shown in note D of the Company financial statements.
Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
98 Premier Farnell Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill All business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 February 1998 and prior to 2 February 2004, the transition date to IFRS, was capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life.
As a result of the transition to IFRS, such amortisation ceased on the transition date to IFRS.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 February 1998 was written off directly to reserves in the year ofacquisition.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves and will not be written back to the income statement in the event of a disposal.
Any business combination on or after 31 January 2011 will be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations, as follows: Transaction costs are expensed as incurred: Consideration transferred for the acquisition of subsidiaries is the fair value of assets transferred, liabilities incurred and equity interests issued by the Group which includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, whoisresponsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, and who has been identified as the Board ofDirectors.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historic transaction rates.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and with effect from the transition date to IFRS all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity and included in the Groups cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign entity is sold, such translation differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss onsale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity andtranslated at the closing rate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the Groups principal business segments is recognised on the following basis: MDD Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods to external customers, net of sales taxes, returns and discounts.
Revenue is recognised on despatch of goods when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Freight costs charged to customers are included within revenue.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 99 The MDD business segment operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to standard list price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts which are primarily recognised at point of sale.
Design service revenue is earned principally on the sale of development kits and tools and design software to external customers and is recognised on despatch of the goods or delivery of the design software.
Customer support services such as technical support and access to the Groups online community website form part of the Groups ongoing customer proposition, do not attach to any separable transaction and are not charged to external customers.
IPD Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods to external customers, net of sales taxes and discounts which are primarily recognised at point of sale.
Revenue is recognised on the sale of goodswhen the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recognised on this basis according to the terms of the customer contract which is typically on despatch to customers but canbe according to other trigger points as documented in the relevant contract, for example on customs clearance at destination.
Expense classification Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
Distribution costs represent all operating expenses including sales, marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information technology and electronic commerce.
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head office and the Group Board.
Adjusting items Non-recurring charges credits and restructuring costs that are considered to be sufficiently significant to have a material impact on theGroups financial results aredisclosed in the appropriate category separately on the face of the incomestatement as adjusting items andare described in detail in note 2.
Catalogue costs Catalogue costs are treated as an expense as incurred and included indistributioncosts.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development activities undertaken with theprospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding isexpensed in the income statement as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of the individual assets, less the estimated residual value, from the time they become operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Depreciation rates are principally as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Freehold buildings between 20 and 50 years Plant and equipment between 5 and 10 years Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
100 Premier Farnell Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred toacquire and bring to use the specific software.
Development costs, including internal labour, are capitalised where directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software assets controlled by the Group, and where the following criteria are met: technically feasible to complete the software so that it will be available for use: management intends to complete the software for use: ability exists to use the software: probable future economic benefits of the software can be demonstrated: adequate technical, financial and other resources are available tocomplete and use the software: and expenditure attributable to the software during development can bereliably measured.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, between three andsevenyears.
Other intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recognised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Contractually-based customer relationships and trade names Between 4 and 20 years Patents Up to 20 years Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually, orwhen there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and if thecarrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, a loss is recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets net selling price and value in use where value in use is based onthe present value of the estimated future cash flows arising from theasset.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of a past event subsequent to the assets initial recognition.
The Group assesses whether objective evidence exists for each financial asset or group of financial assets at the balance sheet date to determine whether any impairment has arisen.
Financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure toforeign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not have or issue speculative derivative arrangements.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched toan underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
At period ends, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised inthe income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss will depend upon thenature of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the periodof the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over theperiod of the facility to which it relates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 101 Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of thevariability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss onthe derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, theassociated gains or losses that were recognised directly in other comprehensive income are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period s during which the income expense is recognised.
For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge, or when the hedge no longer meets the hedging criteria, isimmediately recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The gain orloss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The costs of operating leases are charged to the income statement onastraight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their leaseterm.
Provision for such costs is made where a legal obligation isidentified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
Employee benefits Pensions The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
In respect of defined benefit plans where the amount of pension is defined, usually based on factors such as age, years of service and compensation, the net asset or obligation of each plan at the balance sheet date is calculated by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The obligation is calculated by discounting the amount offuture benefits that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The net income statement credit charge comprises principally the service cost, and the finance income costs, which are recognised in the period in which they arise.
The net income statement impact is credited charged in arriving at operating profit.
The net pension deficit surplus of each pension plan isrecorded on the balance sheet.
All actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition to IFRS have beenrecognised in equity at that date.
Actuarial gains and losses thatarise subsequent to the transition date to IFRS in calculating the Groupsobligation in respect of each plan, are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Administration costs are recognised in the income statement when theadministration services are provided.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans where the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity are charged as an employee benefit expense as they fall due.
The Group has no further payment obligations once contributions have been paid.
Other post-employment benefits In the US, the Group provides unfunded post-employment medical benefits to certain US employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
102 Premier Farnell Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group operates five equity settled, share-based incentive schemes: an Executive Share Option Plan, a Performance Share Plan, a Restricted Share Plan, aDeferred Share Bonus Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payments, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using appropriate option pricing models.
The expense is credited to retained earnings.
All of the Groups share-based incentives have non-market based performance measures earnings per share or return on sales, for whichthe Black Scholes model is used and the value of the expense isadjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The fair value of SAYE grants is calculated using the Black Scholes model and the expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures.
Share capital and distribution of dividends Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Interim ordinary dividends are recognised when paid and final ordinary dividends are recognised asa liability in the period in which they are approved.
The Groups preference shares are split into debt and equity components, with the associated dividend being recognised on an accruals basis in the income statement as a finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the shares, based on the discounted cash flows of the instrument to the date of maturity, and is then increased each year on an amortised cost basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the shares.
On purchase and cancellation of preference shares by the Company, a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement based on the difference between the book value and fair value of the financial liability element of the instrument at the date of purchase.
The difference between the book value and fair value of theequity element of the instrument is recognised as a movement in retained earnings.
In addition, a transfer is made to non-distributable reserves from retained earnings in order to maintain the legal nominal value of share capital.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first-in first-out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including related production overheads where appropriate, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any selling costs.
Provision is made against slow moving and obsolete inventory where appropriate.
Current and deferred income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity, or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for theyear, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balancesheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect ofprevious years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are notprovided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balancesheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has been enteredinto by the subsidiary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 103 Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Investment in own shares Shares acquired by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust are shown as areduction in shareholders funds.
The cost of administering the trust isborne by the Company as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Aprovision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence, forexample default or delinquency in payments, that the full amount willnot be collectible.
Such amounts are written down to their estimatedrecoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term deposits repayable on demand and available within one day without penalty.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement, but shown separately within current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
