Mass Volume Volume Production Small Production Prototype Design 20 Premier Farnell 0.3 Component manufacturers Amplifying our role in electronics Component manufacturers have long partnered with us to launch their new product introductions, valuing the access that we provide to design engineering customers around the world.
Suppliers view our distribution capabilities as essential for them to seed their new products with engineers early in the product lifecycle, creating the opportunity for the amplifying effect, shown in figure 3, to take hold.
For the suppliers of those products, a successful product launch underpins their future growth.
An engineer incorporating this latest technology into their design will potentially result in the significant volume sales growth in the production stage.
Figure 03 Component Engineering Manufacturing Manufacturer Customers Customers Technology Launch Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 21 New product introductions available market is highly fragmented With over 200 engineers across the Development kits play an important role and estimated to be worth approximately business, the technical capability we can in the success of new technologies as 400m annually.
Working on the design provide is unparalleled in our space.
We they are used by engineers to evaluate of the development kit means that we are are now unique amongst distributors in the attributes of the core semiconductor partnering before the launch of the new influencing electronics at the outset of chip that is being considered for a design.
The insights that we gain from the amplifying effect.
This is seeing us As such they are used at the very outset the coming-to-market technology can turn these key supplier partners into new of the product design process.
Engineers help us to enhance our proposition to customers and enhancing the value-add frequently regard the development kit as our core engineering customers and that we provide to them.
a reference design for their product.
drive leadership in the introduction of new technology products.
In addition, we have the opportunity to enhance the value provided to auxiliary Our research shows that in Turning suppliers into customers component manufacturer partners in almost 50% of cases, a design The acquisition of Embest in 2012, a technology areas such as connectors, as engineer will re-use part of the technology business based in China, the development kit plays a critical role in saw us begin to evolve our business their own demand generation.
Given our development kit design in model beyond the distribution of existing relationships in distributing such their prototype.
products from suppliers to customers products to engineering customers, we by providing design services and are uniquely positioned to work closely Semiconductor manufacturers recognise outsourced manufacturing solutions.
with these partners compared with the the important role these products play incumbent players in design services in product selection and future demand and manufacturing of development kits.
The capability that we acquired generation, especially in ensuring the success of new technologies.
As such, through Embest means that we Building our business with they will typically launch a development now provide turnkey solutions component manufacturers kit alongside their latest new products In 2014 15, Embest and AVID completed to our component manufacturer and will look to distributors to help them over 90 projects for more than 20 partners in the launch of their to ensure its success.
value of the projects has increased as The element14 community is viewed by component manufacturers confidence many of our suppliers as an important As a result, we are working with in us has grown and the future pipeline tool in the product launch process.
our suppliers as they develop their appears healthy as we look to 2015 16.
Engineering customers often come to technology from the design and While the total business conducted by the Community at the outset of their manufacturing of their development Embest and AVID is still a relatively design process when they are researching kits all the way through to the launch small part of the Group, with combined possible solutions for their products.
of the product, supported by our revenues of 9.4m in 2014 15, we Through the Community, we can partner established distribution business.
anticipate that this business area with suppliers to conduct social marketing, will provide an incremental growth such as new product roadtests by influential We can now support component opportunity that will benefit our members.
In addition to creating customer manufacturers across a number of larger distribution activities.
engagement around the product, such key technology areas.
Embest has activity allows for third party product embedded technology expertise endorsement and real-time feedback.
designs based on the popular ARM In 2014 15, we enhanced the element14 embedded architecture by the British community with the launch of the Design technology leader, ARM.
With Embest Center, an online hub for information on growing strongly, we required further development kits and tools.
In April 2014, the Group acquired AVID Embest and AVID provide design services Technologies, a design house based and manufacturing of development kits in Ohio, USA.
AVID has enhanced to a substantial number of the major our offering through its specialisation semiconductor manufacturers including in wireless, connectivity, power and Freescale, NXP and AMD.
growth opportunity for element14 represented by this activity, the total
