PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information PZ Cussons Plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London stock exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover.
These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and have been presented in m. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies reporting under IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRS IC.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
Standards and interpretations The following new and amended standards are relevant to the Group and have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements: IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance effective 1 January 2013 endorsed 1 January 2014 Amendments to IAS 32 on financial instruments asset and liability offsetting effective 1 January 2014 Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets on recoverable amount disclosures effective 1 January 2014 Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting effective 1 January 2014 The adoption of these new and amended standards has not had a material impact on the Group financial statements.
Not adopted by the Group The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective from the dates stated below.
Standards have been endorsed by the EU unless otherwise stated.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2017 2018 50 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZCussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31May each year.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of non-controlling interests is stated as the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interests interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The interest of non-controlling interests in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Where non-controlling interests are acquired, the excess of cost over the value of the noncontrolling interest acquired is recorded in equity.
Where necessary, the accounts of subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
Exceptional items The Group adopts a columnar income statement format to highlight significant items within the Group results for the year.
Such items are considered by the Directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of the Group, and may include, but are not limited to, such items as restructuring costs, acquisition related costs, material impairments of non-current assets, including receivables, material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant, equipment and brands, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations and material pension settlements and amendments.
The Directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature should be disclosed in a separate column of the income statement and notes to the financial statements as Exceptional items.
The Directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The fair value of consideration of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
All acquisition costs are expensed as incurred as exceptional items.
Where acquisitions are achieved in stages, commonly referred to as stepped acquisitions, and results in control being obtained by the Group as part of a transaction, the Group re-assesses the fair value of its existing interest in associates or joint ventures as part of determining the fair value of consideration.
In determining the fair value of the Groups existing interest reference is given to the fair value of consideration paid to increase the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures as well as considering the specific fair values of assets and liabilities transferred to gain control.
Any increase or impairment of the Groups existing interest will be credited charged to the income statement as an exceptional item.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 51 Interests in joint ventures The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
PZ Cussons Plc has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill also includes amounts to reflect deferred tax liabilities established in relation to acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings are separately identifiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Trademarks, patents and purchased brands are recorded at purchase cost.
Brands currently held are not amortised as the Directors believe they have indefinite lives due to their market leading nature.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and more frequently where there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and renovation and sustained and rising marketing particularly media investment.
A brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash generating units to which they relate and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income.
Profit or losses on disposal of brands are included within operating profit within exceptional items.
52 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates and sales related taxes but including interest receivable on sales on extended credit.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred which is generally on receipt or collection by customers.
Should management consider that the criteria for recognition are not met, revenue is deferred until such time as the consideration has been fully earned.
Trade spend, which consist primarily of customer pricing allowances, placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These accruals are reported within trade and other payables.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations income statements and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Finance income and expense Finance income and expense are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Government grants relating to income are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the period to which the grant relates.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 53 Employee benefits Share-based payments The Group operates a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior executives, all of which involve equity-settled share-based payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme were measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date was expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting period based on the expected outcome of the performance and service conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been in effect throughout the year.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
54 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Leasehold buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Plant and machinery not less than 8% Fixtures, fittings and vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement for the year.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Property, plant and equipment that suffer impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each balance sheet date.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Where net realisable value is lower than cost, provision for impairment is made which is charged to cost of sale in the income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables and is measured as the difference between carrying value and present value of estimated future cashflows.
Subsequent recoveries of previously impaired trade receivables are recognised as a credit to profit.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Short-term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 55 Where the Group has the legally enforceable right, and intends to settle balances on a net basis, bank overdrafts and cash balances are offset and presented on a net basis within in the financial statements.
Disclosure of the gross values has been included in note 18 of the financial statements.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily interest rate swaps to hedge a proportion of the exposure to floating interest rate fluctuations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis through the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classified as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-tomaturity investments and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
56 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Ordinary Shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such Ordinary Shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Board.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
In respect of interim dividends these are recognised once paid.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries out business.
Those in the United Kingdom are defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
The UK defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual on 31May 2008.
The Group accounts for the defined benefit-scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The deficit surplus of the defined benefit pension schemes is recognised in full on the balance sheet and represents the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
A full actuarial valuation is carried out at least every three years and the defined benefit obligation surplus is updated on an annual basis, by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Pension charges income recognised in the income statement consists of administration charges of the scheme and a cost based on the interest income on net pension scheme liabilities surpluses calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
Differences between the actual return on assets and interest income, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included directly in the Groups statement of comprehensive income.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 57 Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make assumptions and estimates about future events.
Estimates and accounting judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, differ from the actual results.
The assumptions and estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Pensions As disclosed in note 23, the Groups UK defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and future accruals.
Year-end recognition of the liabilities under this scheme and the return on assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of significant actuarial assumptions to be made including inflation, discount rate and mortality rates.
Small changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement and on the pension liability in the balance sheet.
Accounting for intangible assets and goodwill The Group records all intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination at fair value.
Intangible assets are deemed to have indefinite lives and as such are not amortised but are subject, as a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
Determining whether intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount through value in use of the cashgenerating units to which the intangible asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of key estimate, sensitivities and key assumptions are discussed in note 10.
Current tax The current tax liability asset directly relates to the actual tax payable receivable on the Groups profits and is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Assumptions and judgements are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period in which it is determined.
Trade promotions The Group provides for amounts payable to trade customers for promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the year end, an accrual is reflected in the Group accounts based on our expectation of customer and consumer uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which temporary promotional activity has occurred.
This requires management to apply judgement and estimates based on historical trends and known activity to date and should actual uptake differ from that estimated this could impact the results of the Group.
Segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM has been identified as the Executive Board which comprises the three Executive Directors.
The CODM reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
The CODM has determined the operating segments based on these reports which include an allocation of central revenue and costs as appropriate.
The CODM considers the business from a geographic perspective, with Africa, Asia and Europe being the operating segments.
The CODM assesses the performance based on operating profit before any exceptional items.
Other information provided, except as noted below, to the CODM is measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
Revenues and operating profit of the Europe and Asia segments arise from the sale of personal care, home care and food and nutrition products.
Revenue and operating profit from the Africa segment arise from the sale of personal care, home care, food and nutrition and electrical products.
58 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Sales between segments are carried out on an arms length basis.
Business segments 1 2 Africa Asia Europe Eliminations Total 2015 m m m m m Gross segment revenue 362.3 211.6 428.8 183.6 819.1 Inter segment revenue 5.5 12.5 165.6 183.6 Revenue 356.8 199.1 263.2 819.1 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and share of results of joint ventures 35.3 16.9 57.9 110.1 Share of results of joint ventures 4.3 4.3 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items 39.6 16.9 57.9 114.4 Exceptional items 6.7 6.6 11.5 24.8 Segmental operating profit 32.9 10.3 46.4 89.6 Finance income 0.8 Finance cost 6.4 Profit before taxation 84.0 Depreciation and amortisation 8.2 3.3 8.3 19.8 Impairment 4.3 4.3 1 2 Africa Asia Europe Eliminations Total 2014 m m m m m Gross segment revenue 373.6 199.3 474.3 185.8 861.4 Inter segment revenue 12.3 14.9 158.6 185.8 Revenue 361.3 184.4 315.7 861.4 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and share of results of joint ventures 38.7 19.3 56.9 114.9 Share of results of joint ventures 1.5 1.5 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items 40.2 19.3 56.9 116.4 Exceptional items 5.3 6.6 20.6 8.7 Segmental operating profit 34.9 12.7 77.5 125.1 Finance income 2.6 Finance cost 4.0 Profit before taxation 123.7 Depreciation and amortisation 8.6 3.0 8.3 19.9 Impairment 4.4 7.9 12.3 1 Asia segment includes revenue and profit from Australian operations.
2 Europe segmental result includes revenue and profit from US operations that are deemed to be immaterial for separate disclosure.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 59 The Groups Parent Company is domiciled in the UK.
The split of revenue from external customers and non-current assets between the UK, Nigeria and rest of the world Other is: UK Nigeria Other Total 2015 m m m m Revenue 185.7 316.4 317.0 819.1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 258.3 98.3 356.6 Property, plant and equipment 60.7 98.9 49.5 209.1 Pension 43.4 43.4 Financial instruments 23.3 5.7 0.9 29.9 UK Nigeria Other Total 2014 m m m m Revenue 188.8 315.5 357.1 861.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 238.4 49.3 287.7 Property, plant and equipment 48.8 94.5 52.0 195.3 Pension 38.3 38.3 Financial instruments 45.8 3.8 0.9 50.5 The Group analyses its net revenue by the following categories: 2015 2014 m m Personal Care 415.9 428.0 Home Care 139.8 194.2 Food and Nutrition 116.2 87.7 Electricals 140.6 139.9 Other 6.6 11.6 819.1 861.4 3.
Exceptional items Year to 31May 2015 Exceptional Exceptional items before items after taxation Taxation taxation Exceptional items included within operating profit: m m m Group structure and systems project 2.0 0.4 1.6 five:am acquisition and Australia integration costs 4.3 1.1 3.2 Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs 6.1 1.4 4.7 Polish Home Care brands divestment and manufacturing site disposal 6.4 3.0 9.4 Provision against Nigerian government receivables 6.0 1.8 4.2 24.8 1.7 23.1 Year to 31May 2014 Exceptional Exceptional items before items after taxation Taxation taxation Exceptional items included within operating profit: m m m Group structure and systems project 5.6 1.4 4.2 Supply chain optimisation phase 1 2.0 0.4 1.6 Supply chain optimisation phase 2 11.0 1.7 9.3 Polish Home Care brand profit on divestment 30.6 3.3 27.3 Raffertys Garden acquisition and integration Costs 3.3 0.4 2.9 Deferred tax benefit of reduction in UK Corporation tax rate principally relating to brands 4.3 4.3 8.7 4.9 13.6 60 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Exceptional items continued Explanation of exceptional items Year to May 2015 Group structure and systems project The Group has incurred exceptional costs of 2.0m relating to the project to realign the non-manufacturing organisation design to create a more effective Group operating model.
These costs mainly consist of restructuring and advisory costs.
five:am acquisition and integration costs During the year the Group acquired the entire share capital of Five AM Life Pty Limited.
The Group incurred acquisition related costs and integration restructuring costs of 4.3m, as a result of integrating the business into existing operations.
Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs The Group has incurred exceptional costs of 6.1m relating to further opportunities to reduce the Groups supply chain cost base identified in the prior year.
The costs related to restructuring costs associated with supply chain optimisation and impairment costs associated with the write-down of supply chain assets.
Polish Home Care brands divestment and manufacturing site disposal During the year the Group has completed the full divestment of its Polish Home Care brands.
Post year end the Group completed the separate sale of the associated manufacturing site.
Included in the 6.4m are redundancy costs and asset impairment costs.
Provision against Nigerian government receivables During the year the Group has made a full provision of 6.0m against a Nigerian government receivable.
Year to May 2014 Group structure and systems project The Group incurred exceptional costs of 5.6m relating to the project to realign the non-manufacturing organisation design to create a more effective Group operating model.
These costs mainly consisted of restructuring and advisory costs.
Supply chain optimisation phase 1 The Group incurred exceptional costs of 2.0m relating to restructuring costs associated with the completion of the supply chain optimisation project that was initiated in the year to 31May 2012.
The program was completed on budget early in the financial year, and the realisation of the benefits remained in line with previous expectations.
Supply chain optimisation phase 2 During the supply chain optimisation programme further opportunities to reduce the Groups supply chain cost base were identified and a further exceptional charge of 20.0m was forecast to be taken in the years to 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2015 in respect of this extended programme.
The costs relate to restructuring costs associated with supply chain optimisation and impairment costs associated with the write-down of supply chain assets.
Polish Home Care brands profit on divestment The Group sold its Polish Home Care brands for 46.6m cash consideration.
Raffertys Garden acquisition and integration costs During the year the Group acquired the entire share capital of Raffertys Garden Pty Limited.
The Group incurred acquisition related costs and integration restructuring costs of 3.3m, as a result of integrating the business into existing operations.
Deferred tax benefit of reduction in UK Corporation tax rate principally relating to brands The UK corporation tax rate reduced to 20per cent on 1 April 2015.
As a result of this change, the deferred tax balances relating to UK assets and liabilities were reduced to take account of the substantively enacted rate change.
The largest single effect of the rate change was in relation to the deferred tax liabilities recognised when the Sanctuary, St. Tropez and Charles Worthington brands were acquired and this is disclosed as an exceptional item due to its size and the fact that it relates to previous acquisitions.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 61 4.
Profit for the year analysis by nature Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2015 2014 m m Net foreign exchange losses 3.8 4.5 Research and development costs 4.3 2.9 Amortisation of government grants 0.1 0.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment note 11 4.3 12.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 11 19.8 19.9 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1 Profit on disposal of intangible asset 30.6 Raw and packaging materials and goods purchased for resale note 14 401.5 431.6 Operating lease rentals 1.6 1.6 Employee costs note 5 99.9 103.9 Auditors remuneration see below 1.1 1.1 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements and consolidation 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.5 Total audit fees 0.7 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Tax services 0.2 0.2 Transaction related services 0.1 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total fees 1.1 1.1 5.
Directors and employees Employee costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number Production 2,601 2,739 Selling and distribution 2,317 2,354 Administration 609 686 5,527 5,779 The costs incurred in respect of the above were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 92.4 92.3 Social security costs 5.6 7.1 Other pensions costs 2.8 3.8 Share-based payments credit charge note 28 0.9 0.7 99.9 103.9 62 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Directors and employees continued The other pensions costs consist of: 2015 2014 m m Defined benefit schemes note 23 0.5 0.5 Defined contribution schemes note 23 2.7 3.2 Overseas minor defined benefit schemes and Nigerian gratuity scheme note 23 0.6 1.1 2.8 3.8 Directors remuneration The costs incurred in respect of the Directors, who are regarded as the key management personnel, were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Short term employee benefits 3.5 2.7 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Total 3.4 3.2 For the year ended 31May 2015 the highest paid Director received total remuneration of 1.5m 2014: 1.1m and pension contributions of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
Additional details are within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 8 to 27.
Net finance costs 2015 2014 m m Investment gains 0.1 0.1 Interest receivable 0.7 2.5 Total interest income 0.8 2.6 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 6.4 4.0 Net finance costs 5.6 1.4 7.
Taxation 2015 2014 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge for the year 4.6 4.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 4.8 Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 14.5 22.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 13.7 22.0 Total current tax charge 18.3 26.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary timing differences 6.1 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 0.3 Total deferred tax charge credit 7.8 1.8 Total tax charge 26.1 25.0 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.83per cent 2014: 22.67per cent of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 63 Taxation on items taken directly to equity was a credit of 0.6m 2014: 1.6m credit and relates to deferred tax on pensions, share option schemes and financial derivatives recognised in the hedging reserve.
2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 84.0 123.7 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.83% 2014: 22.67% 17.5 28.0 Tax effect of revenue expenses that are not taxable deductible 2.7 2.1 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries in overseas jurisdictions 3.7 1.0 Effect of UK rate change on deferred taxation 3.9 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 1.0 0.2 Overseas withholding tax suffered on dividends 3.5 2.5 Derecognition of deferred tax assets not deemed recoverable 4.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.9 0.3 Tax charge for the year 26.1 25.0 8.
Dividends 2015 2014 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to Ordinary Shareholders in the year comprise: Final dividend for the year ended 31May 2014 of 5.23p 2013: 5.04p per Ordinary Share 22.0 21.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31May 2015 of 2.61p 2014: 2.53p per Ordinary Share 11.0 10.8 33.0 32.2 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31May 2015 of 5.39p 2014: 5.23p per Ordinary Share 23.1 22.4 The proposed final dividends for the years ended 31May 2014 and 31May 2015 are subject to approval by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and hence have not been included as liabilities in the financial statements at 31May 2014 and 31May 2015 respectively.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
2015 2014 Number Number 000 000 Basic weighted average 420,851 424,738 Diluted weighted average 421,282 426,129 The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares represents the potentially dilutive effect of the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan.
The weighted average number of shares can be reconciled to the weighted average number of shares including dilutive shares as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number 000 000 Average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year 428,725 428,725 Less weighted average number of Ordinary Shares held by the Employee Share Option Trust 7,874 3,987 Basic weighted average Ordinary Shares in issue during the year 420,851 424,738 Dilutive effect of share incentive plans 431 1,391 Diluted weighted average Ordinary Shares in issue during the year 421,282 426,129 At 31May 2015, the Employee Share Option trust held 9,262,811 Ordinary Shares 2014: 7,208,985 Ordinary Shares.
64 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted earnings per share 2015 2014 Basic earnings per share 12.45p 21.52p Exceptional items 5.49p 3.56p Adjusted basic earnings per share 17.94p 17.96p Diluted earnings per share 12.44p 21.45p Exceptional items 5.48p 3.54p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 17.92p 17.91p Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share figures are calculated by dividing adjusted profit after tax for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue as above.
The adjusted profit after tax for the year is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Profit attributable to owners of the Parent 52.4 91.4 Exceptional items net of taxation effect 23.1 15.1 Adjusted profit after tax 75.5 76.3 10.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total Cost m m m At 1 June 2013 45.8 202.9 248.7 Acquired during the year 39.2 39.2 Currency retranslation 0.2 0.2 At 31May 2014 45.8 241.9 287.7 Acquired during the year note 29 16.4 53.4 69.8 Currency retranslation 0.9 0.9 At 31May 2015 62.2 294.4 356.6 Other intangible assets include the Groups acquired brands which are deemed to have indefinite lives.
In the year the Group has recognised goodwill and other intangible assets in respect of its acquisitions of five:am and the acquisition of the remaining 50per cent of the Nutricima joint venture not previously owned by the Group.
Additional details of amounts recognised have been set out in note 29.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, which all have indefinite useful lives, are subject to annual impairment testing, or more frequent testing if there are indicators of impairment.
The methods used are as follows: intangible assets including goodwill are allocated to appropriate cash-generating units CGUs based on the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows independently in relation to the specific intangible goodwill: and the recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined through value-in-use calculations that use cash flow projections from approved budgets and plans over a period of five years which are then extrapolated beyond the five year period based on estimated long term growth rates.
The Group has identified the following CGUs and the table below summarises the allocation of goodwill and other intangible assets to each CGU.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 65 Other Other intangible intangible Goodwill Goodwill assets assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Original Source 9.8 9.8 Beauty division brands 40.4 40.4 188.2 188.2 Raffertys Garden 39.2 39.2 Nutricima 4.6 15.5 five:am 11.8 33.3 Other 5.4 5.4 8.4 4.7 Total 62.2 45.8 294.4 241.9 As the Groups other intangible assets, which represent brand values, and goodwill have all arisen from previous business combinations, CGUs have been identified as the businesses, as a whole, acquired as these represent the smallest group of assets which independently generate cashflows.
This is the case for all CGUs other than the Beauty division brands which have been identified as one CGU given this is the level at which management review goodwill for the Beauty division.
Key assumptions in the budgets and plans include future revenue volume price growth rates, associated future levels of marketing support, cost-base of manufacture and supply and directly associated overheads.
These assumptions are based on historical trends and future market expectations specific to each CGU and the markets and geographies in which they operate.
Other key assumptions applied in determining value in use are: long term growth rate Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rate applicable for the geographies in which the CGUs operate: and discount rate The discount rate is based on a Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group as the base discount rate, adjusted for risks specific to each CGU.
The long term growth rates and discount rates applied in the value in use calculations have been set out below: Long term Discount growth rate rate Original Source 2.5% 8.8% Beauty division brands 2.5% 8.8% Raffertys Garden 2.5% 8.8% Nutricima 5.0% 17.5% five:am 2.5% 8.8% Other 2.5% 8.8% The discount rate disclosed above is the pre-tax discount rate applied in the value in use calculations.
The same discount rate has been applied to all CGUs other than Nutricima.
This reflects the similar geographic and product diversification of their respective markets and risks associated with each CGU.
The discount rate applied in the Nutricima value in use calculation reflects the specific risks associated with the CGU, including the specific economic and political risks facing the CGU given the majority of its cashflows are generated in emerging markets, and principally in Nigeria.
Long term growth rates have been set for each CGU based on estimated long term growth rates for the territories in which the CGUs operate.
All CGUs, other than Nutricima, operate in geographies which include the UK, Australia, the USA and central Europe.
Long term growth rates have been set with reference to long term inflation forecasts which have been deemed an appropriate proxy for long term growth.
The long term growth rate for the Nutricima CGU reflects the estimated long term growth rate in the key geographies of Nigeria and Ghana in which the CGU operates and consistent with the other CGUs has been set with reference to long term inflation forecasts.
66 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Having performed the annual impairment tests no impairment has been recognised for the year ended 31May 2015 31May 2014: nil.
As part of forming this conclusion the Directors performed a sensitivity analysis which focused on the change required in key assumptions, both individual and through dual assumption sensitivities to give rise to an impairment, with the conclusion that no reasonable possible changes in key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill and other intangible assets to be less than the carrying value.
At 31May 2015, the Groups share in the capital commitments of the joint ventures was nil 2014: nil.
The impairment loss of 4.3m in the current financial year is in relation to the Polish Home Care manufacturing site which was disposed of post year end.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 67 12.
Net investments in joint ventures Net investments in joint ventures includes the Groups equity investment in joint ventures which total nil 2014: nil.
As at the start of the financial year the Group had two principal joint ventures being Milk Ventures and PZ Wilmar.
On 31March 2015 the Group acquired the remaining 50per cent share capital of Milk Ventures and therefore as at 31May 2015 the results of MilkVentures have been consolidated into the results and financial position of the Group.
Further details on the acquisition of Milk Ventures have been set out in note 29 to these financial statements.
The tables below reconcile the movement in the Groups net investment in joint ventures in the year.
2015 2014 m m Equity investment in joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Additional equity investment in Milk ventures 4.3 Share of joint venture net liabilities 0.1 Disposal of Milk ventures joint ventures equity investment note 29 4.4 Net equity investment in joint ventures 2015 2014 m m Long term loans issued to joint ventures 45.8 51.1 New long terms loans issued to joint ventures 21.0 Movement in share of joint venture net assets 1.5 5.3 Disposal of Milk ventures joint ventures loans 39.7 Net investment in joint ventures 28.6 45.8 The movement in share of joint venture net assets of 1.5m represents 4.3m of profit and 2.8m of foreign exchange loss.
The Groups investment in joint ventures comprises both equity investments and long-term loans issued to joint ventures.
The share of losses from joint ventures have been allocated against the Groups equity investment first and then to the longterm loans issued by the Group, as these in substance form part of the Groups investment in joint ventures, and therefore in accordance with IAS 28 the Groups share of losses in joint ventures has not been restricted to its equity investment.
On 31March 2015, prior to the Group acquiring the remaining 50per cent of the Milk Ventures joint venture not previously owned, the Group had a net investment in the Milk Ventures joint venture totalling 39.7m which comprised an equity investment of 4.4m, long terms loans of 40.4m and a share of net liabilities of 5.1m.
On acquisition, in accordance with IFRS 3, the Group has been deemed to have disposed of its investment in the joint venture and the fair value of the Groups interest in the joint venture has been re-assessed as part of the acquisition accounting as set out in note 29.
The movement in the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures has been summarised in the table below: m Carrying value At 1 June 2013 4.6 Exchange differences on translation of overseas net liabilities recognised in equity 2.3 Share of result for the year taken to the income statement 1.5 At 31May 2014 5.4 Exchange differences on translation of overseas net liabilities recognised in equity 2.8 Share of result for the year taken to the income statement 4.3 Disposal of Milk ventures joint venture share of liabilities 5.1 At 31May 2015 1.2 68 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Net investments in joint ventures continued Summarised financial information of joint venture Set out below is the summarised financial information for the consolidated PZ Wilmar joint ventures, including PZ Wilmar Limited, PZ Wilmar Food Limited and Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited, which are accounted for using the equity method.
2015 2014 Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures m m Assets Non-current assets Assets 50.5 49.3 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.4 8.0 Other current assets 46.4 74.4 53.8 82.4 Total assets 104.3 131.7 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 52.5 85.9 Current liabilities 49.1 48.3 Total liabilities 101.6 134.2 Net assets liabilities 2.7 2.5 2015 2014 Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures m m Revenue 224.5 193.8 Profit for the year 6.2 1.9 Total comprehensive income 6.2 1.9 The above information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint venture and excludes Wilmars share of those amounts.
Pre-acquisition, Milk Ventures UK Limited and its subsidiary, Nutricima Limited, contributed profit after taxation of 1.3m 2014: 0.7m The Group accounts for joint ventures using the equity method.
A list of the investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31.
Other investments Non-current other investments of 0.3m 2014: 0.3m comprise a 31per cent investment in Norpalm Ghana Limited, a palm oil plantation in Ghana note 31.
The Group does not exercise significant influence over the affairs of this Company as it does not have the ability to participate in the financial and operating policies of the entity, and it is therefore not treated as an associated Company.
The Directors consider the historical cost of the investment to be representative of its fair value at both 31May 2015 and 31May 2014.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 67.4 64.2 Work in progress 4.8 5.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 91.5 92.6 163.7 162.2 During the year ended 31May 2015 1.7m 2014: 0.9m was charged to the income statement for slow moving and obsolete inventories.
The cost of the inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 401.5million 2014: 431.6m.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 69 15.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 Receivables due within one year m m Trade receivables 151.6 134.2 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 7.9 6.5 Net trade receivables 143.7 127.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures 2.7 8.8 Other receivables 25.6 23.0 Prepayments and accrued income 5.8 7.2 Currency derivative instrument 0.7 178.5 166.7 The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value due to their short term nature.
2015 2014 Receivables due after more than one year m m Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.3 Other receivables 0.4 4.1 1.0 4.4 Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 June 6.5 8.4 Provision for receivables impairment 3.7 1.2 Receivables written off during the year 1.1 0.8 Unused amounts reversed 1.6 Currency translation 1.2 0.7 At 31May 7.9 6.5 Provisions are estimated by management based on past default experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The creation and release of provisions for receivables is charged credited to administrative expenses in the income statement.
Trade receivables consist of a broad cross section of our international customer base for whom there is no significant history of default.
The credit risk of customers is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
The credit period taken on sales ranges from 19 to 110 days 2014: 4 to 127 days due to the differing nature of trade receivables in the Groups geographical segments.
No other receivables have been deemed to be impaired.
70 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amount of the Groups net trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2015 2014 m m Sterling 36.8 35.1 US Dollar 10.7 8.3 Nigerian Naira 36.6 26.8 Euro 18.1 17.9 Polish Zloty 2.1 6.8 Indonesian Rupiah 11.9 9.9 Ghana Cedi 5.9 6.2 Australian Dollar 17.2 12.2 Other minor currencies 4.4 4.5 143.7 127.7 The following table shows the age of trade receivables at the reporting date for which no allowance for impairment of trade receivables has been recognised: 2015 2014 m m Not past due 118.1 98.1 Past due 0-90 days 23.1 27.1 Past due 90-180 days 1.9 1.9 Past due 180 days 0.6 0.6 143.7 127.7 16.
Current asset investments 2015 2014 m m Unlisted 0.3 0.3 Short-term deposits with joint ventures 18.8 0.3 19.1 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 45.2 48.1 Short-term deposits 10.2 21.9 Cash and short term deposits 55.4 70.0 Less: Bank overdrafts included within borrowings note 18 7.6 Cash and cash equivalents 47.8 70.0 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents during the year ended 31May 2015 was 1.4 per cent 2014: 2.2per cent.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 71 18.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management a Financial instrument fair value estimation The Group holds a number of financial instruments that are held at fair value within the financial statements.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments utilised by the Group during the years ended 31May 2015 and 31May 2014, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: Current and non-current investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Groups balance sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term in nature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings and cash The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
In deriving the fair value the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, level 2 or level 3 dependant on the valuation method applied in determining their fair value.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs The financial instruments held at fair value by the Group relate to foreign currency forward contracts used as derivatives for hedging and the contingent consideration which has arisen on the acquisition of five:am.
The Group holds a cancellable interest rate swap over the amortising term loan and the fair value is immaterial at year end.
For both the year ended 31May 2015 and 31May 2014, the assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency contracts have been classified as level 2.
The contingent consideration on the acquisition of five:am has been classified as level 3.
There have been no transfers between either level 1 and 2 or level 2 and 3 in any period.
72 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management continued b Financial liabilities and assets Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31May 2015 and 31May 2014.
None of the financial assets and liabilities has been reclassified during the year.
2015 2014 Carrying Carrying amount and amount and fair value fair value m m Loans and receivables Cash and short-term deposits 55.4 70.0 Trade and other receivables 172.0 159.5 Short-term deposit with joint ventures 18.8 Financial derivative assets 0.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 196.7 204.8 Bank overdrafts 7.6 Bank loans 205.5 118.5 Financial derivative liabilities 0.4 1.6 Contingent liability 3.9 Amounts owed to joint ventures 7.3 i Financial Liabilities 2015 2014 m m Overdrafts due within one year 7.6 Bank loans due within one year 205.5 15.0 Bank loans due between two and five years 103.5 213.1 118.5 At year end the Groups central loan facilities consisted of an amortising 15m term loan and a 194m revolving credit facility with a syndicate of leading international banks.
The Group also had a 35m bilateral facility for trade finance purposes which is renewable annually.
At 31May 2015, the available Group-wide un-drawn facilities totalled 128.2m 2014: 95.8m Subsequent to the year end the Group has refinanced its committed borrowing facilities in the UK.
The new facility provided by a syndicate of three banks is composed of a 240m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a final termination date of February 2020.
The new facility reflects current market commercial terms and pricing for a loan of this nature for a credit of PZ Cussons standing.
Drawn amounts under the facility attract a variable margin over LIBOR based on the Groups Net Debt EBITDA ratio.
The initial margin under the new facility is lower than the margin under the Groups previous facility.
Undrawn amounts attract a commitment fee.
The facility is unsecured but the lenders benefit from a guarantee from the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 73 The Group expects to pay circa 1.7m of arrangement and participation fees and associated costs, which will be charged to the income statement over the life of the new facility.
As a result of entering into this new deal, the Group will incur circa 0.3million of one-off non-cash costs in the year to 31May 2016 arising from the accelerated amortisation of the fees related to the replaced deal.
2015 2014 Interest Interest 2015 rate 2014 rate m % m % Borrowing 213.1 2.0 118.5 2.0 ii Financial Assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Gross amounts of Net amounts of Gross amounts of recognised financial liabilities financial assets presented recognised financial assets offset in the balance sheet in the balance sheet m m m Cash and cash equivalents 110.7 62.9 47.8 c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise all trading and hedging derivatives which include the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
These are fair valued as level 2 derivative financial instruments.
The forward foreign exchange contracts have been fair valued using exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for Level 2 derivatives.
The Group holds a cancellable interest rate swap over the amortising term loan and the difference between book and fair value is immaterial at year-end.
The gross valuation of the forward foreign exchange contracts at year-end is: 2015 2014 m m Assets Foreign currency forward contracts 0.7 0.3 Liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 0.4 1.9 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The net notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31May 2015 was 52.1m 2014: 49.9m.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31May 2015 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
This is generally within 12 months from the balance sheet date unless the gain or loss is included in the initial amount recognised for the purchase of fixed assets, in which case recognition is over the lifetime of the asset.
d Contingent consideration Contingent consideration has arisen on the acquisition of five:am and is payable subject to performance of the business in the current year.
This is fair valued as level 3 financial instrument.
2015 2014 m m Opening balance Arising on acquisitions 3.9 Closing balance 3.9 74 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management continued e Financial risk management The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in exchange rates, credit risk, liquidity and interest rates.
The Groups treasury function reports to the Board at least annually with reference to the application of the Group treasury policy.
The policy addresses issues of liquidity, funding and investment as well as interest rate, currency and commodity risks.
The Groups risk management policies are designed to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor the risks and limits continually by means of reliable and up-to-date systems.
The Group modifies and enhances its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets and products.
The Group Risk Committee, under authority delegated by the Board, formulates the high level Group risk management policy, monitors risk and receives reports that allow it to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management policies.
i Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
The Group has dedicated standards, policies and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
Although the Group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating and equity price reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The Group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As an example the Groups borrowings are arranged with a syndicate of major banks and are committed until 2020.
An analysis of the international long-term credit ratings of counterparties where cash and cash equivalents are held is as follows: 2015 2014 m m AA 20.7 16.0 A 13.8 22.5 B 11.9 26.5 C 1.4 5.0 47.8 70.0 The short-term deposit with joint ventures which does not form part of cash and cash equivalents of nil 2014: 18.8m is a repayable on-demand balance, split between Nutricima Limited nil 2014: 5.2m and PZ Wilmar Limited nil 2014: 13.6m, both joint venture companies.
The balance earns interest at a rate of nil 2014: 13per cent.
ii Liquidity management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains a strong liquidity position and manages the liquidity profile of its assets, liabilities and commitments so that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all funding obligations are met when due.
iii Market risk management Market risk is the risk that movements in market rates, including foreign exchange rates, cashflow, interest rates and commodity prices will reduce the Groups income.
The management of market risk is undertaken by the operating unit Finance Directors under delegated authority using risk limits approved by the board.
iv Foreign exchange risk management The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Subsidiary undertakings must ensure that all transactional exposures arising from commitments in a currency other than their functional currency are identified and monitored.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to manage these exposures.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 75 The below sensitivity analysis was conducted by modelling a 10per cent weakening based on average annual fluctuations of Sterling against the following currencies at 31May which would have increased equity and increased decreased profit loss by the following amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
2015 2014 Income Income Equity statement Equity statement m m m m Nigerian Naira 36.6 2.4 28.0 2.3 Euro 4.0 0.1 4.4 Indonesian Rupiah 2.8 0.3 2.6 0.4 Australian Dollar 1.6 0.2 1.4 0.5 Polish Zloty 1.2 1.2 2.8 0.3 A 10per cent strengthening of Sterling against the above currencies would have had the equal and opposite effect on equity and profit loss by the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
v Price risk management Due to the nature of the business, the Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group does take measures to protect against short-term impacts of these fluctuations, however, failure to recover higher costs could have a negative impact on profits.
vi Cash flow and interest rate risk The Groups variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The Group has reduced its exposure to this by entering into interest rate swaps.
vii Contractual undiscounted cashflows The Groups only contracted financial liabilities are the amortising term loan of 11.3m as at 31May 2015.
The contracted undiscounted cashflows of the amortising term loan total 11.3m as at 31May 2015 2014: 26.75m.
viii Capital risk management The Group considers capital to be net debt funds plus total equity.
Net debt funds is defined as cash, short-term deposits and current asset investments less borrowings.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group had net debt positions as at 31May 2015 and 31May 2014 respectively, as shown below: 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand see note 17 45.2 48.1 Short-term deposits see note 17 10.2 21.9 Bank overdrafts see note 17 7.6 Cash and cash equivalents 47.8 70.0 Current asset investments 0.3 19.1 Loans due within one year 205.5 15.0 Loans greater than one year 103.5 Net debt 157.4 29.4 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups capital is not restricted.
76 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 104.3 111.0 Amounts owed to joint ventures 7.3 Other taxation and social security 8.7 8.7 Other payables 7.5 6.8 Financial derivative liabilities note 18 0.4 1.6 Accruals and deferred income 84.9 87.0 205.8 222.4 Trade and other payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value due to short term nature.
Other non-current liabilities 2015 2014 m m Other payables 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.7 21.
Deferred tax Revaluation Property, Retirement of property, Tax losses and Share plant and benefit plant and other timing Business based equipment obligations equipment differences combinations payments Total m m m m m m m At 1 June 2013 12.8 1.7 12.1 11.9 33.2 1.3 46.6 Charge credit to income 0.1 1.9 0.1 0.1 4.4 0.8 1.8 Credit charge to equity 1.3 0.1 0.2 1.6 Currency translation 1.0 0.2 1.8 1.2 1.4 At 31May 2014 11.9 2.5 10.2 10.9 28.8 0.7 41.8 Charge credit to income 1.6 0.5 6.5 0.2 7.8 Credit charge to equity 1.3 0.5 0.2 0.6 Acquisition 2.1 4.6 2.5 Other 1.8 1.8 Currency translation 1.4 1.7 1.2 1.9 At 31May 2015 10.5 2.8 8.0 6.6 33.4 0.3 47.8 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 7.1 11.6 Deferred tax liabilities 54.9 53.4 47.8 41.8 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
At the balance sheet date, the Group recognised 0.6m in respect of unused tax losses 2014: 4.9m available against future profits.
None of the recognised losses are expected to expire.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are not significant.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 77 22.
Provisions Restructuring and warranty provisions m At 1 June 2013 13.2 Charged to the income statement 4.4 Currency retranslation 1.1 Used during year 3.4 At 31May 2014 13.1 Charged to the income statement 11.0 Currency retranslation 0.4 Used during year 10.3 At 31May 2015 13.4 Provisions as at 31 May 2015 relate to restructuring costs in connection with the supply chain optimisation project, Polish Home Care brand and manufacturing site divestment and Group structure and systems project 12.2m, and warranty costs in relation to the Africa Electricals division 2015: 1.2m, 2014: 1.1m.
The majority of provisions are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months.
Retirement benefits The Group operates retirement benefit schemes for most of its UK and overseas subsidiaries.
The defined benefit scheme associated obligations have all been measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised.
Summary of Group retirement schemes UK retirement benefits The UK operates a defined contribution scheme for current employees.
The UKs defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual on 31May 2008.
The following four defined benefit schemes are the UKs main schemes: Main staff plan for all historically eligible UK based staff, excluding PZ Cussons Plc Executive Directors: Directors plan for PZ Cussons Plc Executive Directors: Expatriate plan for all eligible expatriate staff based outside the UK: and Unfunded plan unfunded unapproved retirement scheme.
Current and past employees within these schemes are provided with defined benefits based on service and final salary.
The assets of the schemes are administered by trustees and are held in trust funds independent of the Group.
In relation to the unfunded plan, the Group made payments during the year to former Directors of 163,292 2014: 158,465.
Overseas retirement benefits Outside of the UK the Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Included within Overseas retirement benefits and similar obligations below are the unfunded retirement benefit obligations relating to certain of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and other employee related provisions for long service and sick leave.
Summary of Group defined benefit scheme associated obligations 2015 2014 Surplus Deficit Total Surplus Deficit Total m m m m m m Expatriate plan 42.2 42.2 37.2 37.2 Directors plan 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 Main staff plan 14.1 14.1 11.6 11.6 Unfunded plan 5.4 5.4 4.6 4.6 Other overseas units 7.6 7.6 7.0 7.0 43.4 27.1 16.3 38.3 23.2 15.1 78 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefits continued The movements in the year are as follows: Overseas UK retirement retirement benefits and benefits similar and similar obligations obligations Total m m m At 1 June 2013 9.0 16.6 7.6 Currency retranslation 1.7 1.7 Interest expense income 1.1 0.5 0.6 Contributions paid 7.7 7.7 Utilised in the year 0.2 0.2 Remeasurement gains losses 1.2 2.7 1.5 At 31May 2014 7.0 22.1 15.1 Currency retranslation 0.3 0.3 Interest expense income 0.6 0.5 0.1 Contributions paid 7.7 7.7 Utilised in the year Remeasurement losses 0.3 6.4 6.7 At 31May 2015 7.6 23.9 16.3 Overseas retirement benefits and similar obligations measurement and assumptions used The most significant overseas scheme as at 31May 2015 is the Indonesian post-retirement benefit scheme.
The obligations have been measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised and a discount rate of 8.0per cent 2014: 8.3per cent and salary inflation rate of 8.0per cent 2014: 8.0per cent have been used.
The scheme is unfunded and provision for future obligations included in the above table is 6.2m 2014: 5.3m.
UK retirement benefits and similar obligations measurement and assumptions used The last triennial actuarial valuations of the schemes administered in the UK were performed by independent professional actuaries at 1 June 2013 using the projected unit method of valuation.
For the purposes of IAS 19 revised the actuarial valuation as at 1 June 2013, which was carried out by a qualified independent actuary, has been updated on an approximate basis to 31May 2015.
There have been no changes in the valuation methodology adopted for this years disclosures compared to the previous years disclosures.
The key financial assumptions used by the actuary were as follows: 2015 2014 Rate of increase in retirement benefits in payment 3.00% 3.15% Discount rate 3.45% 4.35% Inflation assumption 3.05% 3.25% The mortality assumptions used were as follows: 2015 2014 Years Years Weighted average life expectancy on post-retirement mortality table used to determine benefit obligations Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.6 22.5 Member age 40 life expectancy at age 65 25.3 25.1 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 79 The assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Equities 92.6 108.2 112.1 Bonds 237.3 186.2 125.7 Property 5.7 4.5 50.0 Cash and other 10.3 6.3 15.1 Total fair value of scheme assets 345.9 305.2 302.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 322.0 283.1 286.3 Surplus in the schemes 23.9 22.1 16.6 Related deferred tax liability 4.8 4.4 3.8 Net retirement benefit surplus 19.1 17.7 12.8 Equities and bond assets are quoted with all other assets being unquoted.
The net retirement benefit income before taxation recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes is summarised as follows: 2015 2014 m m Interest on net defined benefit surplus 1.1 0.9 Administration expenses paid by the scheme 0.6 0.4 Net retirement benefit income before taxation 0.5 0.5 All above amounts are recognised in the Groups income statement in arriving at operating profit.
The reconciliation of the opening and closing balance sheet position is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Surplus at beginning of year 22.1 16.6 Net interest income 1.1 0.9 Administration expenses paid by the scheme 0.6 0.4 Employer contributions 7.7 7.7 Re-measurement gain due to scheme experience 0.2 1.1 Re-measurement loss due to changes in demographic assumptions 4.6 Re-measurement loss gain due to changes in financial assumptions 37.4 8.4 Return of plan assets excluding interest income 30.8 7.6 Net surplus at end of year 23.9 22.1 Analysed between: Retirement benefit surplus 43.4 38.3 Retirement benefit obligation 19.5 16.2 23.9 22.1 Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
At 31May 2015, cumulative pre-tax remeasurement losses of 45.4m 2014: 39.0m were recorded directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
80 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefits continued Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: Assets Assets 2015 2014 m m 1 June 305.2 302.9 Interest income 13.2 13.1 Return of plan assets excluding interest income 30.8 7.6 Employer contribution 7.7 7.7 Administrative expenses 0.6 0.4 Benefits paid 10.4 10.5 31May 345.9 305.2 Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: Obligations Obligations 2015 2014 m m 1 June 283.1 286.3 Interest expense 12.1 12.2 Re-measurement gain due to scheme experience 0.2 1.1 Re-measurement loss due to changes in demographic assumptions 4.6 Re-measurement loss gain due to changes in financial assumptions 37.4 8.4 Benefits paid 10.4 10.5 31May 322.0 283.1 Plans that are wholly or partly funded 316.6 278.5 Plans that are wholly unfunded 5.4 4.6 322.0 283.1 The sensitivities on the key actuarial assumptions as at the end of the period were: Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase of 3.2% Rate of inflation Increase of 0.25% Increase of 3.5% Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy of 1 year Increase of 3.0% The sensitivities shown above are approximate.
Each sensitivity considers each change in isolation and are calculated using the same methodology as used for the calculation of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The inflation sensitivity includes the impact of changes to the assumptions for the revaluation and pension increases.
In practice it is unlikely that the changes would occur in isolation.
During the year ending 31May 2016 the Group expects to make cash contributions of 7.7m 2015: 7.7m to funded defined benefit plans.
A further 1.6m 2015: 1.6m is expected to be contributed to defined contribution plans.
The amount recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in relation to defined contribution schemes is 2.7m 2014: 3.2m.
Share capital 2015 2014 Number Amount Number Amount 000 m 000 m Allotted, issued and fully paid: Ordinary Shares of 1p each 428,725 4.3 428,725 4.3 Total called up share capital 428,725 4.3 428,725 4.3 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 81 25.
Employee Share Option Trust Included within retained earnings is the Employee Share Option Trust ESOT.
The ESOT purchases shares to fund the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan, details of which are provided in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The market value of these shares as at 31May 2015 was 33.2m 2014: 25.4m.
During the year the ESOT purchased 2,053,826 shares of the Company at a cost of 8.5m 2014: 3,851,549 at a cost of 16.1m representing 0.5per cent of issued share capital.
The trust has waived any entitlement to dividends in respect of all the shares it holds.
The cost of buying own shares is charged to the profit and loss reserve.
Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 84.0 123.7 Adjustment for net finance costs 5.6 1.4 Operating profit 89.6 125.1 Depreciation 19.8 19.9 Impairment loss of tangible fixed assets 4.3 9.1 Profit on sale of Polish Home Care brands 30.6 Loss profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 0.3 0.1 Pension scheme contributions paid 7.7 7.7 Net pension income for the year 0.1 0.6 Share of results from joint ventures 4.3 1.5 Share-based payments credit charge 0.9 0.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 101.2 115.5 Movements in working capital: Inventories 3.6 14.1 Trade and other receivables 15.6 5.9 Trade and other payables 19.4 0.2 Provisions 1.0 1.2 Cash generated from operations 61.6 96.9 27.
Operating lease commitments At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases over certain of its properties, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 2.6 2.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 8.0 8.6 Over five years 0.7 1.3 The Group leases a number of premises.
These are subject to review on dates ranging from 2015 to 2023.
82 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based payments Share-based payments are made to senior executives and other selected key individuals throughout the organisation.
These are the Performance Share Plan: Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme: and the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The total credit in the year relating to the three schemes was 0.9m 2014: charge 0.7m.
Performance Share Plan The Group operates a Performance Share Plan PSP for main Board Executive Directors and certain key senior executives.
The extent to which such awards vest will depend upon the Groups performance over the three year period following the award date.
The Groups performance is measured by reference to the growth of adjusted earnings per share over the retail price index over a single three year period.
The fair value of the award is taken as the share price at the date of grant.
On 23 September 2014, the Group made 1,221,052 awards under the PSP scheme 2014: total awards of 912,373.
The number of shares exercised in the year was 19,062 2014: 33,065 at a market value of 59,169 2014: 131,331 based on the market price at the date of exercise.
In addition the number of lapsed share options totalled 1,255,348 2014: 1,024,079.
The number of awards outstanding but not yet exercisable is 2,966,071 at 31May 2015 2014: 3,019,429.
The total credit included in operating profit in relation to these awards was 0.9m 2014: charge 0.7m.
The credit relates to the movement in the cumulative charge for the awards in issue based on expected vesting.
The weighted average exercise price is nil 2014: nil.
Executive Share Option Scheme The Group operates a share option scheme for senior executives.
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Companys shares on the dealing day before the option is granted.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group for any reason outside of the scheme rules.
Options under the scheme are exercisable in a period beginning no earlier than three years from the date of grant and are subject to performance conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model according to the relevant measures of performance.
The model includes adjustments, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions, behavioural considerations and expected dividend payments.
The option life is derived by the models based on these assumptions and other assumptions identified below.
The total expense included within operating profit in respect of the share option scheme was nil 2014: nil.
No options have been granted during the current or previous year under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The movement in total outstanding options in respect of the Executive Share Option Scheme is provided below: Weighted average Number of share options exercise price Outstanding at 1 June 2013 1,331,726 1.5 Exercised 857,229 1.4 Outstanding at 31May 2014 474,497 1.6 Exercisable at 31May 2014 474,497 1.6 Lapsed Exercised 273,259 1.6 Outstanding at 31May 2015 201,238 1.6 Exercisable at 31May 2015 201,238 1.6 Weighted average Price share exercise price Range of prices: 31May 2015 0.7-1.7 1.6 31May 2014 0.7-1.7 1.6 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 83 Weighted average Number of share options contract term years Weighted average contractual remaining life: 31May 2015 201,238 1.0 31May 2014 474,497 2.0 There were no options outstanding at 31May 2015 or 31May 2014 that are outside of the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
Acquisitions i Acquisition of 2.25per cent of share capital of PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc Cost of acquisitions m 2.25% of share capital of PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc 9.9 Throughout the year to 31May 2015, the Group has acquired additional share capital of its existing subsidiary PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc, increasing the Groups stake from 70.55per cent to 72.8per cent.
The consideration for these additional shares was 9.9m, resulting in the acquisition of a non-controlling interest of 3.1m and an amount debited to retained earnings through the consolidated statement of changes in equity of 6.8m.
ii Acquisition of the entire share capital of Five AM Life Pty Limited On 8 August 2014, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Five AM Life Pty Limited, a company registered in Australia, whose principal activity is the manufacture and sale of organic yoghurt.
The net cash outflow on initial acquisition was 44.8m that comprised of cash outflows of 39.5m for consideration, 6.4m for debt repayment and cash inflows of 1.1m from acquired cash.
Additional performance related consideration, that is currently fair valued at 3.9m but could reach a maximum of 7.7m, is payable subject to the performance of the business in its current financial year to 30 June 2015.
Details of the acquisition are as follows: a Purchase consideration and provisional fair value of net assets acquired m Cash consideration 39.5 Contingent consideration 3.9 Total purchase consideration 43.4 The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated by assessing the probability that the performance based targets will be achieved based on current and forecast trading performance.
Contingent consideration has not been discounted as it is expected to be settled within the next 12 months.
This is a level 3 fair value measurement.
The provisional assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition are as follows: Fair value Provisional Book value adjustment fair value m m m Property, plant and equipment 3.5 3.5 Inventories 0.8 0.8 Trade and other receivables 2.7 2.7 Net debt 5.3 5.3 Trade and other payables 2.9 0.5 3.4 five:am brand 33.3 33.3 Net identifiable assets acquired 1.2 32.8 31.6 Goodwill 11.8 Consideration 43.4 84 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions continued The fair value adjustments relate to the recognition of the five:am brand and the recognition of a tax related provision.
No deferred tax liability in relation to the recognition of the five:am brand has been recognised on the basis of an associated tax base being in place.
b Goodwill The goodwill of 11.8m can be attributable to the synergies expected from combining the operations of the acquired business and the Group.
None of the recognised goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes.
c Acquisition and integration costs Acquisition and integration costs of 4.3m are included in the income statement and are treated as exceptional costs.
d Revenue and profit contribution The acquired business contributed revenues of 19.1m and pre-exceptional operating profit of 3.9m to the Group for the period from 8 August 2014 to 31May 2015.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 June 2014, Group consolidated revenue and consolidated operating profit before exceptional items for the year ended 31May 2015 would have been 822.0m and 114.9m respectively.
iii Acquisition of the entire share capital of Milk Ventures UK Limited On 31March 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 50per cent share capital of Milk Ventures UK Limited, a company registered in the UK, whose principal activities are the manufacturing and marketing of evaporated and powdered milk products and nutritional drinks to West African markets, through its trading subsidiary Nutricima Ltd. For the year ended 31May 2014, and up until 31March 2015, the Milk Ventures UK Limited group was accounted for as a joint venture in accordance with IFRS 11, reflecting the Groups 50per cent shareholding amongst other factors considered in concluding on its treatment as a joint venture.
The acquisition of the remaining 50per cent of the share capital, from the Groups joint venture partner, resulted in the Group obtaining control of Milk ventures UK Limited and its subsidiaries.
The acquisition of Milk ventures UK Limited represented an acquisition achieved in stages and has been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The net cash outflow associated with gaining control was 21.0m and represented additional loans issued to Milk Ventures UK Limited which were subsequently used to settle outstanding loans to the joint venture partner.
The consideration paid for the equity stake in Milk Ventures UK Limited was 1.
As at 31March 2015, prior to acquisition, the Groups net investment in the Milk Ventures UK Limited joint venture totalled 39.7m and represented an investment of 4.4m, long terms loans to the joint venture of 40.4m after taking account of the additional loans of 21.0m extended to fund the repayment of the joint venture partner loans and the Group share of losses in the joint venture of 5.1m.
As required by IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition the Group has re-assessed the fair value of its existing interest in the joint venture to determine the fair value of consideration paid for 100per cent of the business.
In considering the fair value the Directors considered the fair value of the Groups investment in the joint venture, with reference to the consideration paid for the 50per cent equity stake of 1, as well as considering the fair value of long terms loans issued to the joint venture.
Having performed this assessment the Directors concluded that the investment in the joint venture should be impaired by 4.4m, with the fair value of long term loans being uplifted by 5.1m to take account of the Group not being liable for the share of losses previously recognised.
The net impact of the fair value assessment was a 0.7m gain that was included in the income statement and treated as an exceptional item.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 85 a Purchase consideration and provisional fair value of net assets acquired m Fair value of existing interest in the joint venture 40.4 Total purchase consideration 40.4 The assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition are as follows: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustment fair value m m m Property, plant and equipment 22.4 7.4 15.0 Inventories 15.3 0.7 14.6 Trade and other receivables 13.2 5.6 7.6 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 12.9 12.9 Nutricima brand 15.5 15.5 Deferred tax 4.6 4.6 Net identifiable assets acquired 38.6 2.8 35.8 Goodwill 4.6 Consideration 40.4 The fair value adjustments relate to: the recognition of the Nutricima brands, the recognition of a provision against a Nigerian government receivable, the fair valuation of fixed assets using Group accounting policies, the recognition of a deferred tax liability on the recognition of the Nutricima brand and the recognition of goodwill arising from the acquisition attributable to the synergies expected from combining the operations of the acquired business and the Group.
b Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs of 0.1m are included in the income statement and treated as exceptional costs.
c Revenue and profit contribution The acquired business contributed revenues of 13.4m and operating profit of 2.7m to the Group for the period from 31March 2015 to 31May 2015.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 June 2014, Group consolidated revenue and consolidated operating profit before exceptional items for the year ended 31May 2015 would have been 875.1m and 115.5m respectively.
iv Acquisition of Greek vinegar brand and assets On 18 December 2014 Minerva SA, the Groups subsidiary in Greece, acquired the vinegar brand TOP trademark and other assets including plant and machinery, for consideration of 5.4m.
The brand was fair valued at 4.6m.
The acquisition incurred 0.7m of deal related costs that were included in the income statement and treated as exceptional costs.
86 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Related party transactions Milk Ventures UK Limited and Nutricima Limited prior to acquisition The following related party transactions were entered into by subsidiary companies during the year under the terms of a joint venture agreement with Glanbia Plc.
The Group received interest from Milk ventures UK Limited of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
The Group sourced and then sold fixed assets, power and raw materials to Nutricima Limited to the value of 42.8m 2014: 48.2m.
In addition the Group received distribution fee income of 3.9m 2014: 4.8m from Nutricima Limited.
There were no charges to the income statement in respect of doubtful related party receivables 2014: nil.
PZ Wilmar Limited and PZ Wilmar Food Limited The following related party transactions were entered into by subsidiary companies during the year under the terms of a joint venture agreement with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited.
At 31May 2015 the outstanding balance receivable from PZ Wilmar Limited was 21.0m 2014: 21.0m and from PZWilmar Food Limited was 6.4m 2014: 6.4m.
The Group sourced and then sold certain raw materials to PZ Wilmar Limited to the value of 2.4m 2014: 4.3m.
At 31May 2015 the amount outstanding from PZ Wilmar Limited was 0.8m 2014: 1.9m and from PZ Wilmar Food Limited was nil 2014: 0.1m.
The amount outstanding from the Group to PZ Wilmar Limited was nil 2014: nil and from PZWilmar Food Limited at 31May 2015 was nil 2014: 6.1m.
The Group had advanced a short-term deposit to Wilmar Limited which was repaid during the year.
As at 31May 2015 the outstanding balance was nil 2014: 13.6m.
All trading balances will be settled in cash.
There were no provisions for doubtful related party receivables at 31May 2015 2014: nil and no charges to the income statement in respect of doubtful related party receivables 2014: nil.
Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited The following related party transactions were entered into by subsidiary companies during the year under the terms of a joint venture agreement with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited.
At 31May 2015 the amount outstanding from Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited was 1.9m 2014: 1.2m.
The amount outstanding from the Group at 31May 2015 was nil 2014: nil.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 87 31.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and non-current asset investments Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries at 31May 2015 are as follows: Parent Proportion Companys of voting Subsidiary company Operation Incorporated in interest interest PZ Cussons Australia Pty Limited Distribution Australia 100% 100% PZ Cussons Middle East and South Asia FZE Distribution Dubai 100% 100% Seven Scent Limited Manufacturing England 100% 100% PZ Cussons Holdings Limited Holding company England 100% 100% PZ Cussons International Limited Provision of services to Group companies England 100% 100% PZ Cussons UK Limited Manufacturing England 100% 100% The Sanctuary Spa Holdings Limited Holding company England 100% 100% Milk ventures UK Limited Holding company England 100% 100% PZ Cussons Ghana Limited Distribution Ghana 90% 90% Minerva SA Manufacturing Greece 100% 100% PT PZ Cussons Indonesia Manufacturing Indonesia 100% 100% PZ Cussons East Africa Limited Manufacturing Kenya 100% 100% HPZ Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 55% 55% PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc Manufacturing Nigeria 73% 73% Harefield Industrial Nigeria Limited Distribution Nigeria 100% 100% PZ Power Company Limited Power generation Nigeria 73% 73% Nutricima Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 100% 100% PZ Tower Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 73% 73% PZ Cussons Polska SA Distribution Poland 99% 99% PZ Cussons Thailand Limited Manufacturing Thailand 100% 100% 1 HPZ Limited is 74.99% owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc and is therefore consolidated.
Parent Companys Joint venture company Operation Incorporated in interest PZ Wilmar Food Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 51% PZ Wilmar Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 49% Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited Sourcing Singapore 50% Parent Companys Other investments Operation Incorporated in interest Norpalm Ghana Limited Manufacturing Ghana 31% Shares held by a subsidiary.
Shares held by the Parent Company.
PZ Cussons Holdings Limited has a 100per cent interest in PZ Cussons Beauty LLP as the Corporate member.
PZ Cussons Beauty LLP brings together the Charles Worthington, Sanctuary, St. Tropez and Fudge businesses and as such its principal operations are the marketing and distribution of beauty products.
PZ Cussons Beauty LLP has a 100per cent interest in St. Tropez Inc. a US beauty product distribution company.
All subsidiary entities have a year end of 31 May.
No subsidiaries of the Group have taken the exemption from audit under section 479A of CA 2006.
See pages 99 to 100 for a full list of the Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures.
