PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 97 Further statutory and other information Health and safety Community and charity PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in additional contributions are made through staff time and gifts accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and employees at all levels participate in the development, donations to significant global fund-raising initiatives and promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it environment for employees, visitors and the public.
We are committed to establishing and maintaining Company employs health and safety specialists and, where strong relationships with community groups, particularly in appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
The Company continues to monitor and increase standards Auditor of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety  LLP has signified its willingness to audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our continue in office and a resolution for its appointment will investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
Directors report of PZ Cussons Plc Employment and staff development For the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our the report of the Directors of PZ Cussons Plc for the year operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the ended 31May 2015 comprises this page and the information employment and development of local staff with the intention contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 4 to 7. of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of Registered office decision-making throughout the Group with effective Manchester Business Park communication via regular consultation groups and briefings.
3500 Aviator Way Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in Manchester performance and over the past year employees of all grades M22 5TG have received training through a wide range of courses.
Registered number The employment policies of the Group embody the principles Company registered number 00019457 of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the Registrars needs of its businesses and the areas in which they operate.
Computershare Investor Services Plc This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that PO Box 82 disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate The Pavilions employment and subsequent training and career Bridgwater Road development.
The Company continues to share valuable Bristol experience and best practice within the Group through BS99 7NH employee secondment.
