88 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of PZ Cussons Plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company explanations received financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations In our opinion, PZ Cussons Plcs company financial statements we require for our audit: or the financial statements : adequate accounting records have not been kept by the give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been as at 31May 2015: received from branches not visited by us: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United the financial statements and the part of the Directors Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from What we have audited this responsibility.
PZ Cussons Plcs financial statements comprise: the Company Balance Sheet as at 31May 2015: and Directors remuneration the notes to the financial statements, which include a Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 summary of significant accounting policies and other opinion explanatory information.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the Companies Act 2006. preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no Other required reporting exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 89 We test and examine information, using sampling and other Responsibilities for the financial auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to statements and the audit provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We Our responsibilities and those of the Directors obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect financial statements in accordance with applicable law and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Other matter Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no We have reported separately on the Group financial other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31May 2015. assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors What an audit of financial statements involves Leeds We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
21 July 2015 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
