Other information Glossary Financial terminology Revenue Income retained by Group after deductions for VAT and players winnings Like-for-like Excludes club openings, closures and relocations, and changes to gaming taxation EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items Operating margin Operating pro t expressed as a percentage of revenue KPI terminology Customers Unique customers visiting a bingo club or casino or operating an online account in the 12-month period Customer visits Individual customer visits to bingo clubs and casinos Spend per visit Revenue divided by customer visits Online of ine crossover Percentage of adults participating in both remote and land-based gaming Net promoter score A measure of a customers propensity to recommend Gaming industry terminology Interval games Automated game of bingo played in a licensed club Adult gaming centre A licensed gaming machines arcade Main stage bingo Traditional game of bingo played in a licensed club Pari-mutuel gaming Gaming where players compete with each other to win prizes.
The house may take a fee for organising the game but does not participate actively.
Also called player-to-player gaming Remote gaming and betting Gambling services offered to customers via the internet and mobile phone Commission des Jeux The governing body for the gambling industry in Belgium Gambling Commission The governing body for all sectors of gambling in Great Britain, with the exception of the National Lottery and spread betting GamCare A charitable organisation that provides counselling and other services to those with gambling-related problems Responsible Gambling Trust A charitable organisation that funds treatment, education and research related to problem gambling and which was formed following the merger of The GREaT Foundation and the Responsible Gambling Fund TiTo Ticket-in ticket-out functionality in gaming machines 136 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 www.
com In line with our strategy we aim to build our digital capability and are committed to improve the way we communicate with our stakeholders.
As a result weve launched a major upgrade of our corporate website which went live in summer 2015.
Weve built our website to be fully responsive across multiple devices, and have developed new content across the sections with improved search facilities and more interactive elements, all designed to make the site more engaging and user-friendly.
So for all our latest news and to nd out more about Rank, get online!
The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certi cation is combined with a system of product labelling that allows consumers readily to identify timber-based products from certi ed forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Printed by CPI Colour The Rank Group Plc Statesman House Stafferton Way Maidenhead SL6 1AY Tel: 01628 504 000 Web: www.
