Strategic report Operating responsibly Our commitment to operating responsibly Our areas of focus Our customers Responsible gambling Ranks purpose is for our customers to enjoy our products responsibly.
How it affects our performance and position Rank is very much aware that, whilst the principal purpose Our of our businesses is to provide an exciting and entertaining customers experience for our customers, there is also a need to protect responsible those few customers who may be most at risk of gamblinggambling related harm.
See page 33 With that in mind, Rank continues to develop its pioneering responsible gambling policy under the award winning Keep it Fun banner.
This is designed to make information about playing responsibly easily accessible to all customers, not just those with the potential to develop problems.
Our Our Innovative means of communicating information in accessible employees communities ways include the use of lm clips both on our dedicated http: keepitfun.
com website and sent out as social See page 34 See page 36 media messaging, along with the display of the Keep it Fun logo and website address on all casino gaming tables.
Our policies and actions At Rank, our approach is to seek a more sophisticated understanding of the problem and to use that understanding to tackle gambling-related harm.
Understand through research and engagement Inuence customer behaviour through communication Provide safeguards and intervene where problems arise Support treatment and counselling More information online, visit http: keepitfun.
com THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 33 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Rank s people are its greatest asset and are the main reason why people choose our brands and stay with us.
During 2014 15, nearly all team members participated in Our employees career development training.
In addition, 861 of our Rank is made up of 11,000 enthusiastic and committed employees achieved a promotion in the year.
individuals, who have a desire to deliver the best experience Leadership and engagement for our customers.
Ranks senior management team has an obligation to the How it affects our performance and position Groups employees to set clear direction and expectations Our people bring our brands to life by striving to deliver and to provide regular and motivational feedback.
Our team a market leading gaming experience.
Ranks people are its member engagement scores tell us how effective we are in greatest asset and are the main reason why people choose meeting this need.
In 2014 15, team member engagement our brands and stay with us.
was in line with that seen in the prior year, at 79%.
We understand that the support and development of our Health and safety staff are critical if we are to achieve our strategic goals.
We at Rank understand that we must keep our employees and customers safe at all times.
We recognise the challenges Our policies and actions and look continually to improve our approach to health Training & safety in order to promote a positive and understood During 2014 15, we invested 635,000 in delivering culture which in turn will help eliminate and reduce 270,000 hours of training to our employees, helping injuries and ill health.
them to develop the skills required to do their jobs.
We will provide our employees with the tools required to Career development carry out their work safely and we encourage our employees Our career development programme is designed to enable to be both passionate and practical about keeping themselves, our employees to progress within Rank, offering mobility our customers and our sites safe at all times.
between brand and Group teams, and the opportunity to work within different areas of operation and to participate We encourage our employees to advise us of any health in cross-group projects.
and safety issues in their workplace so that we can look at eliminating or reducing the risk and nally we will all work together to reduce health and safety risks to a minimum.
Gender diversity 1 Board Senior management Whole company Male 7Male 30Male 5,530 Female 1Female 10Female 5,099 Total 8Total 40Total 10,629 1 Senior management is as dened in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, and includes: i persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than company directors and ii any other directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
34 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 More information online, visit www.
html We will never be able to reduce risk or achieve high standards Disability of health and safety without the active involvement of staff at Rank is committed to ensuring that people with disabilities all levels: from directors and heads of departments developing, are supported and encouraged to apply for employment with resourcing and driving risk reduction methods and feeding the Group and to achieve progress whilst employed.
Disabled back those methods to our employees.
By listening to our persons will be treated so that they have an equal opportunity, employees and our customers and by analysing the accidents so far as is justifiable, to be selected, trained and promoted.
that occur, our appreciation of risks will evolve as will our In order that people with disabilities may have an equal approach to help improve health and safety at Rank.
opportunity of being recruited, the Group strictly applies its Diversity Equal Opportunities and Recruitment Policies.
In particular, Rank is committed to providing equal opportunities for all Rank takes reasonable steps to ensure that interview of our employees.
Our diversity policy ensures that every arrangements are such that disabled persons may attend employee is treated equally and fairly and that all employees without embarrassment or difficulty.
It also ensures that any are aware of their responsibilities.
enquiries made about an applicants health prior to offering a job are limited to establishing whether the applicant will be The policy confirms that there will be no direct or indirect able to comply with a requirement to undergo an interview discrimination in respect of age, disability, religious belief, or other assessment: whether a duty to make reasonable gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, marital status, political adjustments is, or will be, imposed on the Group in relation belief and nationality, or any other category dened by law in to the applicant in connection with a requirement to undergo all aspects of employment including recruitment, promotion, an interview or other assessment: whether the applicant will and opportunities for training, pay and benets.
be able to carry out a function that is intrinsic to the work Please refer to page 50 which outlines the boards concerned: or for the purpose of monitoring diversity in the diversity policy.
range of persons applying to the Group to work.
The Group is also committed to making such reasonable adjustments to The charts on page 34 provide a breakdown of the gender premises, work practices and equipment as are necessary to of directors and employees at the end of the financial year.
enable a disabled person to take up employment with Rank.
Career development opportunities are communicated as appropriate to all employees and those with disabilities are encouraged to apply as detailed in the Groups Equal Opportunities Policy.
Both internal and external training opportunities are provided where they are appropriate to employees current occupations or potential opportunities and to the needs of the business.
Where appropriate, outside training providers are required to demonstrate that they are able to accommodate persons with a disability before the Group will approve their usage.
The provision of internal courses is relocated as necessary in order to ensure that persons with disabilities may attend, and the human resources department is responsible for making suitable arrangements with regard to the venue of the event or to the format in which any supporting course materials are provided.
During performance appraisal meetings in particular, managers are required to pay special attention to the views of disabled employees on career development issues such as access to training development events and or opportunities, and are expected to enquire whether there is anything that the Group may reasonably do to help the person develop and use their abilities at work.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 35 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued W e challenge all of our teams to consider what they can contribute to the communities that they serve.
Where an employee becomes disabled, whether through Human rights accident, illness or injury, every reasonable and practicable Given the nature of our business and its geographical spread consideration will be given to ensuring that they may remain we have not included information on human rights issues in employment.
Any situations involving an employee who as required by the Companies Act 2006 Regulations 2013. becomes disabled require the involvement of human resources, The Group does take into account the rights provided by who monitor the employees disability and provide advice the Human Rights Act 1998 and the European Convention during their ongoing employment.
The Group may take a on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in its policies variety of steps to enable continuing employment, for example and in how it operates.
In an employee context, for example, making adjustments to premises: transfer to an alternative the right to a private and family life is taken seriously and position which is vacant or to a different location place of work: this is re ected in relevant employee policies.
alteration of working hours: time off during working hours Our communities for rehabilitation, assessment or treatment: training and or Rank has continued its long history of community re-skilling: modication or purchase of appropriate equipment: involvement and charitable fund raising.
and provision of supervision and assistance.
All necessary advice and counselling will be provided for the employee concerned How it affects our performance and position by human resources, who will also consult external specialist Our venues are often cited as community hubs particularly organisations as appropriate.
The Group welcomes suggestions our Mecca venues.
We challenge all of our teams to consider from disabled employees regarding adjustments which could what they can contribute to the communities that they serve.
assist with their ability to undertake their role.
Our policies and actions In February 2014, we launched Rank Cares to support the work of the Carers Trust to help those who help others in need of care.
Around three out of every five people in Britain today provide care for another often a sick or elderly relation.
The Carers Trust provides support, advice and relief for those undertaking what is often very physically and emotionally draining work.
We have set ourselves a target of raising 0.9m for the Carers Trust and at 30 June 2015 we had raised 0.8m.
The funds are distributed within the communities in which they are raised, via a series of grant panels.
To celebrate Rank Cares raising over 0.5m a thank you and celebration event was held in March 2015.
In her capacity as president of Carers Trust, The Princess Royal attended to give her thanks and to hand out some awards.
In addition, Rank Cares provides a framework for team members to volunteer their time to help the Carers Trust, often utilising hidden talents to bring relief and happiness to these seless carers.
During 2014 15, Rank also participated in activities to support the following organisations: Dame Kelly Holmes Trust: Cancer Research: and Other local charities.
36 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 More information online, visit Food waste segr egation and collection www.
html has been rolled out across the venues estate with a resultant improvement in land ll diversion.
Year ended 30 June 2015 Year ended 30 June 2014 Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of CO e m Tonnes of CO e m 2 2 1 1 CO e % revenue CO e % revenue 2 2 Scope 1 Constitutes gas use plus gas oil use in Belgium, owned transport and fugitive F-gas emissions 17,833 25 17,677 24 Scope 2 Comprises electricity generation 38,556 53 42,601 57 2 Scope 3 Comprises waste, materials use, ights, electricity transmission and distribution 15,928 22 14,609 19 3 Outside of scopes Represents the biogenic proportion of petrol and diesel 46 39 Total 72,363 100 103.3 74,926 100 110.4 1 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gas expressed in terms of global warming potential of one unit 2 of carbon dioxide.
2 Well-to-tank emissions for fuels electricity, gas, petrol, diesel, and aviation fuel, which would sit within scope 3, are not included in this report.
3 This is categorised as outside of scopes rather than scope three in line with the Defra 2015 emission factor guidance.
Rank and the environment Greenhouse gas GHG emission This is the fourth year of like-for-like reduction in gas and electricity consumption achieved by the various initiatives coordinated via our internal opportunities database as well as assistance from our team members on site.
We are now in our sixth year of monitoring electricity and gas through Automatic Meter Reading AMR and are looking to renew the gas AMR equipment across the estate.
We have now also installed water AMR in the majority of our Scottish clubs.
Half hourly gas and electricity data is issued weekly to the managers of each venue and to our Environmental Champions one per venue and in addition we communicate via our dedicated environmental website and regional road shows held annually.
Food waste segregation and collection has been rolled out across the venues estate with a resultant improvement in land ll diversion.
This currently stands at 78.42% and we envisage being well over 80% by December 2015.
Our Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS surveys have been completed and we are about to review the data to identify our next set of opportunities.
We are progressing with new control systems and strategies as we replace old R22 chillers or other equipment as well as on-going reviews of new technologies.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 37
