Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements SS h har are eho hol ld fide er r I In nf for orm ma attiion on NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CO N T I N U ED NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc 20.
Operating lease commitments Resolution 12 Authority to Allot Shares will be held at Village Urban Resort St. Davids, St. Davids Park, Flintshire That the Directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon 2015 2014 m m CH5 3YB on Tuesday 10 November 2015 at 12 noon for the following them for the purpose of Section 549 551 of the Companies Act 2006, be purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance Within one year 3 2 numbers 13 and 14 which will be proposed as special resolutions.
with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all powers of Within two to five years 3 3 the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot shares Resolution 1 Annual Report or grant rights to subscribe shares or convert any securities into shares: To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial statements 21.
Contingent liabilities for the year ended 30 June 2015, together with the Auditors report.
i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665: and The Company has guaranteed the bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Performance bonds, financial guarantees in respect of certain deferred land creditors and other building or performance guarantees have been entered into in the normal course of business.
ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 in Resolution 2 Dividend connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share for the year 22.
Related party transactions ended 30 June 2015.
Within the definition of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, the Board and key management personnel are related parties.
Detailed disclosure of the Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or renewed remuneration of the Board is given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 70 to 83.
A summary of remuneration provided to key expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 3 Reappointment of Director management personnel is provided in note 7c.
Company or 31 December 2016 whichever may be the earlier but so To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement In addition, related party transactions were carried out with parties related to Steve Morgan during the year totalling 0.7m Company 0.7m, which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe Resolution 4 Reappointment of Director primarily relating to the donation to the Morgan Foundation as described in the Directors Remuneration report on page 75 and in respect of the for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after such expiry To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
Group, relating to services provided by Harrow Estates plc on an arms length basis under promotional agreements forming part of the acquisition of and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or the Harrow business.
convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as Resolution 5 Reappointment of Director if the authority had not expired.
To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
As at 30 June 2015, an amount of nil was due to Harrow Estates plc under normal trading terms.
For the purposes of this Resolution and Resolution 13, rights issue Resolution 6 Reappointment of Director There have been no other material transactions with key management personnel.
There is no other difference between transactions with key means an offer to: To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
management personnel of the Company and the Group.
a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Resolution 7 Reappointment of Director The Company funds the operating companies through both equity investment and loans at commercial rates of interest.
In addition, the Company practicable to their existing holdings: and To re-appoint Nick Hewson as a Director.
provides its subsidiaries with the services of Senior Management, for which a recharge is made to those subsidiary companies based upon utilisation of services.
b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required Resolution 8 Reappointment of Director by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it To re-appoint Liz Peace as a Director.
The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2015 was 741m 2014: 622m.
The amount owed to subsidiary undertakings at necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, 30 June 2015 was 14m 2014: 14m.
Resolution 9 Appointment of Director to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable To appoint Sir Michael Lyons as a Director.
The Company provided the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as detailed in note 7e.
Expected service costs were charged to the operating letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period businesses at cost.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy relating to the charge.
Experience and actuarial gains are recognised in the Resolution 10 Reappointment of Auditors before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases to Company, via the statement of comprehensive income.
To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional The Group did not undertake any transactions with The Waterford Park Company Limited and Menta Redrow and Menta Redrow II joint ventures.
at which financial statements are laid before the Company and to entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems The Groups loans to its joint ventures are disclosed in note 10. authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
in, or under the laws of, any territory.
Resolution 11 Directors Remuneration Report To approve the Directors remuneration report other than the remuneration policy for the year ended 30 June 2015.
124 125 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CO N T I N U ED Notes: x If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in the Resolution 13 Authority to Disapply Preemption Rights i A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, Company, please forward this document, together with the accompanying Form That, subject to the passing of Resolution 12, the Directors be given speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, power to make allotments of equity securities as defined in Section member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed bank manager, or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 wholly for cash: ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be completed in accordance xi Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members i pursuant to the authority given by paragraph i of Resolution 12 with the instructions set out therein and returned so as to reach the Companys meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require and to sell shares which are held in treasury pursuant to Section Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 and in each case: Shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and iii All Shareholders on the Register at 6.00pm on 6 November 2015 or if the may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting and only a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a those Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting b otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up to an resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : aggregate nominal amount of 1,849,000: and time.
Changes to entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of ii pursuant to the authority given by paragraph ii of Resolution 12 in which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held connection with a pre-emptive rights issue, authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive not later than 26 September 2015, being the date six clear weeks before the communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, and meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
such power shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire at the right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if earlier of the conclusion of next Annual General Meeting of the xii Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they registered office during normal business hours on any business day and at the Company, or 31 December 2016 save that the said power shall permit may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting the Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement before the holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
is held until its conclusion.
expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate xiii The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company will be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am on provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such power 10 November 2015 until the conclusion of the meeting.
None of the Directors conferred had not expired.
For the purposes of this Resolution, the has a service contract which cannot be terminated within one year without v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of payment of compensation.
nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of the Company.
The total number of issued ordinary shares in the Company on 7 September 2015 is 369,799,938, carrying one vote each on a poll.
Therefore, the rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares of the xiv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST total number of votes exercisable as at 7 September 2015 is 369,799,938. electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted adjournment of the meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST vi Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, pursuant to such rights.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider should refer to to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out For the purposes of this Resolution: their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the appropriate action on their behalf.
Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual pre-emptive offer means an offer of equity securities open for General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 July 2014: or ii any circumstance xv In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors to a holders other than connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be the Company on the register on a record date fixed by the Directors of 1 July 2014 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the Shareholders ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings and b other contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Manual available via www.
The message regardless of persons so entitled by virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the Companies Act whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the securities held by them, but subject in both cases to such exclusions or 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest Companys Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note ii above.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has been timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Resolution 14 Calling of a General Meeting other than manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to a Members may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice an Annual General Meeting proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to him by other means.
of meeting or any related documents including the enclosed form of proxy That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting may to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those xvi CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company By order of the Board therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting Graham Cope interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in Company Secretary takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
7 September 2015 members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service viii A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual Companies Act 2006 can be found at www.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Registered office: Redrow House ix If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended xvii The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances to immediately seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
St. Davids Park bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly Flintshire xviii If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special assistance at the authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
CH5 3RX meeting, please contact the Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
Registered in England Number 2877315 126 127 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
