Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTING POLICIES Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and Net realisable value for land was assessed by estimating selling prices Intangible Assets Computer Software been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting obligations of each investor.
Redrow plc has assessed the nature of its and cost including sales and marketing expenses, taking into account Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and effective at joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
basis of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are 30 June 2015, and in accordance with IFRS Interpretations Committee ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years, charged This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored for interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 as it applies to companies to administrative expenses.
These are reviewed for impairment whenever Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are adequacy and appropriateness as regards under and over provision reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and in events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the to reflect circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
Any material accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by the not be recoverable.
Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements change to the underlying provision will be reflected through cost of revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
When the Groups share of losses in a sales as an exceptional item.
Property, Plant and Equipment The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures, the Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for Forward Land the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost less Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites without of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
the subsequent depreciation of buildings.
residential planning consent but including options, fees etc.
is provided amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Whilst Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and acquisition of land All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint following the securing of planning permission, the provisions relating to depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction that land are released.
Expenditure incurred on owned sites without bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for them to those estimates refer to note 1. provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
residential planning consent is included in inventories and is subject to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Revenue and Profit Recognition Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is charged so as to Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of Employee Benefits write off the cost of assets to their residual values over their estimated Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
the sale of residential housing and land and of commercial land and a.
Pension obligation useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised IAS 19R Employee Benefits, has been adopted with effect from The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in the on legal completion.
Buildings within freehold property 50 years 1 July 2013.
The change in the accounting standard has been adopted periods presented and are outlined below: Plant and machinery 510 years retrospectively and the comparative accounts have been restated.
Profit is recognised on legal completion.
Under IAS 19R the separate calculations of an interest cost on the Basis of Consolidation Fixtures and fittings 35 years defined benefit obligation and an expected rate of return on plan assets The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Segmental Reporting The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each have been replaced with a net interest charge calculated by applying the statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
The impact of the Groups share of the results and share of net assets of jointly controlled As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has restatement on prior periods is shown in the table in note 7e.
entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in only one business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where Redrow plc circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
The Redrow Staff the information provided for internal reporting purposes to the Chief has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the accrual of new benefits Operating Decision Maker the Board.
The Group has no key customers.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the Redrow plcs accounting reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the with effect from 1 March 2012, with new benefits now being provided difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of normal monthly reporting process, the actual date to which the balance Exceptional Items via the Redrow Group Personal Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme is the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
For ease Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are externally invested and comprises two sections: a defined benefit of reference all references to the year or 12 months and financial position material by size or nature, non-recurring and of such significance that Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale section and a defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a are for the year ended 30 June and as at 30 June.
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when pension plan which defines an amount of pension benefit that an their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale employee will receive on retirement.
It is funded through payments to The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under Net Financing Costs transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations carried Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present Redrow plcs Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by reference managements best estimate of realisable value less estimated costs out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension Company income statement.
The profit for the financial year is dealt to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Interest necessary to make the sale.
plan under which the Group pays agreed contributions into a separate with in the statement of changes in equity.
costs are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a the period in which they are incurred.
Subsidiaries specific employee is determined by the amount accumulated in their In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held at Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The GPP is also a type of defined contribution plan.
Income and Deferred Tax cost less any impairment.
controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect Leases of the defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any appropriate those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is determined using the from profit before tax as shown in the income statement as it excludes They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Identifiable under operating leases are charged to work in progress or income on a projected unit credit method on an annual basis by an independent income or expenditure items which are never chargeable or allowable for assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
tax or which are chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
business combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Inventories Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, Groups share of the identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets is subject to an annual impairment review, with any reduction in value on account which represents payments made against work in progress.
as they arise in full via the statement of comprehensive income.
and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the being taken straight to the income statement.
corresponding tax bases used in the calculation of taxable profit.
Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and administrative Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials and Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements of expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are included in net Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based on normal subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to All inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all their present location and condition, excluding borrowing costs.
In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme and the are eliminated on consolidation.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted at GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when Provisions are established to write down land where the estimated net the balance sheet date.
The Group has no further payment obligations in respect of b.
Interests in joint ventures sales proceeds less costs to complete exceed the current carrying value.
the above once the contributions have been paid.
The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, consolidated Adjustments to the provisions will be required where selling prices or investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint statement of comprehensive income, or retained earnings as appropriate.
98 99 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTING POLICIES CO N T I N U ED b.
Bonus plans d. Cash and cash equivalents structured entities, the amendments will remove the requirement to b.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank present comparative information for periods before IFRS 12 is first for the financial year beginning 1 July 2013 and not early adopted contractually obliged.
overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral part of the applied.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and measurement.
This Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. standard on classification and measurement of financial assets and c. Share-based payments equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
financial liabilities will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements.
This standard categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been e. Borrowings and trade payables includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002, which Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded when after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the had not vested as of 1 July 2004.
Equity settled share-based payments the proceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and 10.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and cash flows represent principal and interest.
For liabilities, the standard are measured at fair value on the date of grant and expensed on a straight subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
These include amortised-cost line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the accounting for most financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures.
This standard that will eventually vest.
income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be d. Termination benefits Onerous Contracts equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
Effective for periods Amendments to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, regarding general hedge Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods accounting.
These amendments to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, bring by the Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic beginning on or after 1 January 2014. into effect a substantial overhaul of hedge accounting that will allow These benefits are recognised by the Group in the period in which it benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is made to reflect entities to better reflect their risk management activities in the financial Amendments to IAS 32 on Financial instruments asset and liability becomes demonstrably committed to terminating the employment managements best current estimate of the least net cost of either statements.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 offsetting.
This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32, of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without fulfilling or exiting the contract.
but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
Financial instruments: Presentation, to clarify some of the possibility of withdrawal.
Share Capital requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an Financial Instruments Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
Effective annual periods on or after 1 January 2014. interest in a joint operation.
This amendment adds new guidance on a.
Land creditors how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation Dividend Distribution Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of assets on recoverable amount Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted that constitutes a business.
The amendments specify the appropriate Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as disclosures.
These amendments address the disclosure of information present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with IAS accounting treatment for such acquisitions.
Effective for periods a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is 39.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value is beginning on or after 1 January 2016 but no date set yet for the dividends are declared.
based on fair value less costs of disposal.
Effective annual periods on or amortised over the deferment period via financing costs.
Impact of New Standards and Interpretations The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the date Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS a.
New standards Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and of the land purchase.
38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation.
In this IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements.
This standard builds on existing measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting amendment the IASB has clarified that the use of revenue based b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor effective annual periods on or after 1 January 2014 These narrowmethods to calculate the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial scope amendments allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the determining control where this is difficult to assess.
This new standard is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The IASB has also clarified The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest rate risk might impact the entities that a group consolidates as its subsidiaries.
laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met in this context, a that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for management framework adopted by the Board which sets parameters to Effective annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 although novation indicates that parties to a contract agree to replace their measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained to manage interest endorsed for annual periods on or after 1 January 2014. original counterparty with a new one.
This relief has been introduced in intangible asset.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January rate risk in respect of borrowings.
response to legislative changes across many jurisdictions that would 2016 but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
This standard provides for a more realistic lead to the widespread novation of over-the-counter derivatives.
These The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments or reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and legislative changes were prompted by a G20 commitment to improve Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits, regarding defined benefit their use for speculative purposes.
obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
There are two transparency and regulatory oversight of over-the-counter derivatives in plans.
These narrow scope amendments apply to contributions from types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint an internationally consistent and non-discriminatory way.
Similar relief employees or third parties to defined benefit plans.
The objective of the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial operations arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets and will be included in IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
Effective annual amendments is to simplify the accounting for contributions that are instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash flow hedges obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its periods on or after 1 January 2014. independent of the number of years of employee service, for example, are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The gains or losses interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise employee contributions that are calculated according to a fixed relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, on percentage of salary.
Effective annual periods on or after 1 July 2014 immediately they arise.
and hence equity accounts for its interest.
Proportional consolidation of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment although endorsed for annual periods on or after 1 February 2015. joint ventures is no longer allowed.
Effective annual periods beginning updates the application guidance in IAS 32, Financial instruments: c. Loans and receivables on or after 1 January 2013 although endorsed for annual periods on or Presentation, to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15, Revenue Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or after 1 January 2014. assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Effective for periods from contracts with customers is a converged standard from the IASB determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and endorsed by the EU on and FASB on revenue recognition.
The standard will improve the included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities This standard includes December 2012. financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the top line after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, in financial statements globally.
Effective for periods beginning on or Loans and receivables include trade receivables and other receivables including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and IFRIC 21, Levies.
This interpretation is on IAS 37, Provisions, contingent after 1 January 2018 but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Effective annual periods beginning on liabilities and contingent assets.
IAS 37 sets out criteria for the or after 1 January 2013 although endorsed for annual periods on or after recognition of a liability, one of which is the requirement for the entity Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on the equity Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any 1 January 2014. to have a present obligation as a result of a past event known as an method.
These amendments allow entities to use the equity method to impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement value obligating event.
The interpretation clarifies that the obligating event account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in over the settlement period via financing income.
These amendments also provide that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy is the activity described in the their separate financial statements.
Effective for periods beginning on or additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the relevant legislation that triggers the payment of the levy.
Effective after 1 January 2016 but no date set yet for endorsement by the EU.
requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the annual periods on or after 1 January 2014. preceding comparative period.
For disclosures related to unconsolidated 100 101 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
