Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements SS h har are eho hol ld fide er r I In nf for orm ma attiion on NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CO N T I N U ED NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc 20.
Operating lease commitments Resolution 12 Authority to Allot Shares will be held at Village Urban Resort St. Davids, St. Davids Park, Flintshire That the Directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon 2015 2014 m m CH5 3YB on Tuesday 10 November 2015 at 12 noon for the following them for the purpose of Section 549 551 of the Companies Act 2006, be purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance Within one year 3 2 numbers 13 and 14 which will be proposed as special resolutions.
with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all powers of Within two to five years 3 3 the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot shares Resolution 1 Annual Report or grant rights to subscribe shares or convert any securities into shares: To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial statements 21.
Contingent liabilities for the year ended 30 June 2015, together with the Auditors report.
i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665: and The Company has guaranteed the bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Performance bonds, financial guarantees in respect of certain deferred land creditors and other building or performance guarantees have been entered into in the normal course of business.
ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 in Resolution 2 Dividend connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share for the year 22.
Related party transactions ended 30 June 2015.
Within the definition of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, the Board and key management personnel are related parties.
Detailed disclosure of the Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or renewed remuneration of the Board is given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 70 to 83.
A summary of remuneration provided to key expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 3 Reappointment of Director management personnel is provided in note 7c.
Company or 31 December 2016 whichever may be the earlier but so To re-appoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement In addition, related party transactions were carried out with parties related to Steve Morgan during the year totalling 0.7m Company 0.7m, which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe Resolution 4 Reappointment of Director primarily relating to the donation to the Morgan Foundation as described in the Directors Remuneration report on page 75 and in respect of the for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after such expiry To re-appoint John Tutte as a Director.
Group, relating to services provided by Harrow Estates plc on an arms length basis under promotional agreements forming part of the acquisition of and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or the Harrow business.
convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as Resolution 5 Reappointment of Director if the authority had not expired.
To re-appoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
As at 30 June 2015, an amount of nil was due to Harrow Estates plc under normal trading terms.
For the purposes of this Resolution and Resolution 13, rights issue Resolution 6 Reappointment of Director There have been no other material transactions with key management personnel.
There is no other difference between transactions with key means an offer to: To re-appoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
management personnel of the Company and the Group.
a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be Resolution 7 Reappointment of Director The Company funds the operating companies through both equity investment and loans at commercial rates of interest.
In addition, the Company practicable to their existing holdings: and To re-appoint Nick Hewson as a Director.
provides its subsidiaries with the services of Senior Management, for which a recharge is made to those subsidiary companies based upon utilisation of services.
b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required Resolution 8 Reappointment of Director by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it To re-appoint Liz Peace as a Director.
The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2015 was 741m 2014: 622m.
The amount owed to subsidiary undertakings at necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, 30 June 2015 was 14m 2014: 14m.
Resolution 9 Appointment of Director to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable To appoint Sir Michael Lyons as a Director.
The Company provided the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as detailed in note 7e.
Expected service costs were charged to the operating letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period businesses at cost.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy relating to the charge.
Experience and actuarial gains are recognised in the Resolution 10 Reappointment of Auditors before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases to Company, via the statement of comprehensive income.
To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional The Group did not undertake any transactions with The Waterford Park Company Limited and Menta Redrow and Menta Redrow II joint ventures.
at which financial statements are laid before the Company and to entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems The Groups loans to its joint ventures are disclosed in note 10. authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
in, or under the laws of, any territory.
Resolution 11 Directors Remuneration Report To approve the Directors remuneration report other than the remuneration policy for the year ended 30 June 2015.
124 125 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
