Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Contents Financial Statements 90 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 97 Group Income Statement 98 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 99 Group Balance Sheet 100 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 101 Group Cash Flow Statement 102 Notes to the Financial Statements 138 Five Year Summary 139 Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 141 Parent Company Balance Sheet 142 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 143 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 158 Our Principal Operating Risks 165 Management of Sustainability 166 Shareholder Information Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 89 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs Group Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality was 117 million which represented 5% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
We conducted audit work in 18 countries in which the Group has significant operations.
Materiality The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 76% of Group revenue and 79% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
The Group engagement team visited 15 of the 18 component audit teams to attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
Audit scope For those countries not visited we maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
Accounting for customer trade spend.
Provisions for uncertain tax exposures.
Areas of Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from regulatory investigations.
focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
The classification of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
90 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for customer trade spend Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating Refer to page 63 Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement the controls and systems related to the trade spend process, and page 106 accounting policies.
and where appropriate obtaining audit evidence through testing operating effectiveness of relevant controls together As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates there are with substantive audit procedures.
numerous types of complex commercial arrangements with retailers and other customers that have a range of terms for example promotions, rebates and Testing of controls included examining appropriate discounts.
authorisation for trade spend agreements and contracts, considering segregation of duties over the creation and Trade spend arrangements have varying terms, some of which are supported by approval of the accruals and testing the resolution of variations annual contracts or joint business plans, whilst others are based on shorter term between actual and expected trade spend.
agreements entered into during the year.
In addition, the level and timing of promotions for individual products or ranges varies from period to period, and The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual activity can span over a year end.
These judgements impact the reported results component varied depending upon the nature of the trade of the country, segment and the Group and in particular influence the spend and type of agreement but included the following tests, calculation of net revenue and country operating profit, both of which are key on a sample basis: performance indicators for management incentive schemes.
Agreeing costs incurred during the year to invoices and other correspondence from the customers and subsequent We consider there to be a specific risk associated with the accuracy of the trade settlement: spend that has been incurred during the year as this is material and can be Agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting complex and judgemental.
In particular we focused on the approval of the documentation such as joint business plans, contracts and arrangements, the period to which the spend relates and whether balances had EPOS data: been settled.
In addition, we focused on estimates of the obligations at the Circularising external confirmations to the customers to reporting date in respect of all trade spend arrangements trade spend confirm the existence of specific promotions and the accruals.
We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of underlying key assumptions of the accrual calculation: judgement required in making the key assumptions underpinning the estimates.
For example: Recalculating managements estimates: the date of shipment to the retailer and the period over which the promotion Evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend will run may differ: balance by comparing the historic accruals to actual spend details of the retailers EPOS data may be required to determine the accuracy incurred: and of trade spend committed at the reporting date: and Testing trade spend transactions around the year end to promotions may span over the year end and therefore estimation of the determine whether they had been recognised in the future volume or margin levels of the retailer must be forecast to determine appropriate period.
the level of the accrual required.
As the Group engagement team, we were specifically involved Therefore, our areas of focus included whether the accruals were understated in determining and assessing the appropriateness of the audit and appropriately valued, whether trade spend was recorded in the correct approach for each component in this area.
This satisfied us that period and whether the significant one-off transactions had been accurately sufficient focus was placed on the more judgemental areas and recorded in the income statement.
that, whilst complex, the area was well understood and sufficient focus was placed on this risk area.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 91 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for uncertain tax exposures We updated our detailed understanding of the Groups tax Refer to page 44 Strategic risks and page 63 Audit Committee review of areas strategy and Group transfer pricing policy, particularly in of significant judgement.
relation to any changes implemented during 2015, and assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions it is and legislative developments using, where applicable, our local subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters and international tax specialists.
during the normal course of business.
These challenges include transaction related tax matters, financing and transfer pricing arrangements arising from We obtained explanations from management and centralised functions that drive value across a number of different countries.
corroborative evidence including, communication with local tax authorities, details of progress with Advanced Pricing Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions Agreements and copies of external tax advice reports based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the liability.
relating to tax treatments applied and the corresponding provisions recorded.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the quantification and likelihood of certain potential exposures and therefore the We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular level of provision required for specific cases.
In particular, we focused on the on cases where there had been significant developments with impact of changes in transfer pricing methodologies impacting tax returns in local tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from certain territories, which could materially impact the amounts recorded in the our expectations.
We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the Financial Statements.
Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from Our audit procedures focused on the assumptions and regulatory investigations judgements made by management in determining the Refer to page 44 Strategic risks and Note 17 on page 125 Provisions for recognition and valuation of associated provisions.
We confirmed that, where applicable, discussions took place The Group has been subject to a number of regulatory investigations, for with in-country legal teams and sought audit evidence in that example in respect of violations of antitrust and competition laws, and has location, such as obtaining external confirmations.
This recorded a provision for legal claims on the balance sheet amounting to evidence was also corroborated by the Group engagement 141million.
There is a high level of management judgement associated with team with the Head of Group Legal to understand the status determining the need for, and the magnitude of, provisions for any liabilities of any investigations or litigation, the associated risks and the arising from these investigations.
basis for any provisions recorded.
Therefore, we consider there to be a risk that the provisions may be held at the We obtained and read notifications from the relevant incorrect value on the balance sheet and that disclosure within the Annual regulatory bodies and examined relevant legal documents Report in respect of the cases and their potential impact on the Financial that confirmed the existence of each case and quantified Statements may not be sufficient.
We obtained confirmations from the Groups external legal counsel and compared their description and assessment of the facts and circumstances of the cases and, where applicable, the potential outcome against managements and the internal legal teams assessment.
We did not identify any significant inconsistencies.
92 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment We considered managements integration of the K-Y CGU into Refer to page 63 Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement the Sexual Wellbeing CGU and assessed this to be appropriate and pages 114 to 116 Goodwill and other intangible assets Note.
due to the alignment of production, strategy and marketing.
The Group has goodwill of 3,282 million and other indefinite lived intangible We evaluated the process by which management prepared its assets of 7,897 million as at 31 December 2015 which are required to be tested cash flow forecasts and compared them against the latest for impairment on an annual basis.
Management has allocated these assets to Board approved plans and management approved forecasts.
individual cash generating units CGUs and groups of CGUs GCGUs and there We evaluated the historical accuracy of the plans and forecasts, is judgement around how these are determined, specifically in respect of for example by comparing the forecasts used in the prior year changes in the year.
In 2015 management has brought the production of K-Y model to the actual performance of the business in the current in-house and has aligned the go to market strategy and operating functions year.
These procedures enabled us to determine the accuracy with those of Sexual Wellbeing.
This has resulted in the indefinite lived K-Y of the forecasting process and apply appropriate sensitivities to brand being assessed as part of the Sexual Wellbeing CGU.
There is further judgement around the determination of the recoverable We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal.
rates, future cash flows and long-term growth rates, specifically Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of the future results and focusing on the VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs.
We prospects of the business, the appropriate discount rates to be applied and benchmarked assumptions against industry and peer group specific risk factors applied to the GCGUs and CGUs.
comparators and metrics such as country inflation rates.
Due to VMS and Oriental Pharma being recent acquisitions, the brands remain Based upon our assessments described above, we challenged sensitive to impairment.
The VMS and Oriental Pharma indefinite life CGUs are management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity primarily concentrated in single markets, the US and China respectively, although calculations by applying our own sensitivity analysis to the the launch of VMS brands within Europe and now Asia has continued during the forecast cash flows, long-term growth rates and discount rates year.
The key judgements in determining the recoverable amount of these CGUs to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes are in respect of the forecast cash flows within these primary markets and the would, either individually or in aggregate require an penetration of VMS outside of the US, the use of appropriate discount rates and impairment of either the goodwill or indefinite life assets.
the long-term growth rates applied.
We determined that no impairment charges were required, based on the results of our work.
We identified that the indefinite lived brands acquired with VMS and Oriental Pharma are most sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
Management has described these sensitivities in the Goodwill and other intangible assets Note to the Group Financial Statements.
The classification of exceptional items We obtained corroborative evidence for the items presented Refer to page 103 accounting policies and page 110 Analysis of net operating within exceptional items.
expenses Note for further details.
We challenged managements rationale for the designation of In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional items certain items as exceptional and assessed such items against which are disclosed separately within the Income Statement and are excluded the Groups accounting policy and the consistency of treatment from managements reporting of the underlying results of the business.
The nature of these exceptional items are explained within the Group We also considered whether there were items that were accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains or losses arising on recorded within underlying profit that we determined to be acquisitions or disposals and costs resulting from non-recurring legal or exceptional in nature and should have been included within regulatory matters.
No such items were identified.
This year the Group has identified 133 million of net exceptional items which relate primarily to the loss recognised on the disposal of the Medcom medical business and Group-led restructuring programmes associated with Project Supercharge.
Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified by management met the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, as the identification of such items requires judgement by management.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year on year reporting within the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 93 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on Group operates.
the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the In 2015, the Group reorganised into two geographical regions being Financial Statements as a whole.
DvM Developing Markets including North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel, and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for America, Japan, Korea and ASEAN and ENA Europe, Russia CIS, Israel, the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: North America, Australia and New Zealand.
There is also a separate segment for the Food business.
Following the demerger of Overall Group materiality the RB Pharmaceuticals business in December 2014 there is no longer 117 million 2014: 107 million.
a separate segment for this business which was presented as a discontinued operation in the prior year.
How we determined it 5% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions and food exceptional items.
business consists of a number of management reporting entities which are consolidated by Group management.
The Group Financial Rationale for benchmark applied Statements are a consolidation of 696 reporting units representing Profit before income tax, adjusted for the impact of non-recurring the operating businesses within these geographical-based divisions exceptional items, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for and the centralised functions.
determining materiality and is, we believe, the metric most commonly used by the Shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups The reporting units vary in size and we identified 56 reporting units performance.
from across the two geographic regions and food business that required an audit of their complete financial information due to their Component materiality individual size or risk characteristics.
The reporting units where we For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality for 79% of the Groups profit before income tax, adjusted for allocated across components was between 6 million and 70 million.
non-recurring exceptional items and 76% of the Groups revenue.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality Included within these 56 reporting units were three reporting units that that was lower than the allocated amount.
were audited by the Group engagement team, including the Groups treasury company and the Parent Company.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 6 million 2014: 6 Audits of the revenue financial statement line item were performed in million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, a further two reporting units and specified procedures were performed warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
in respect of tax associated with the reduction of the geographic structure from three regions to two.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors The 53 reporting units, excluding those audited by the Group statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern.
We have engagement team, are audited by 18 component auditor teams.
The nothing to report having performed our review.
Group engagement team visited 15 of the 18 local component teams to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit teams.
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the For those countries not visited we had regular communication with directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to the local teams, both before and after their audit.
Our attendance at adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
the clearance meetings, review and discussion of the audit results at We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
overseas locations, together with the additional procedures performed at a Group level described below, gave us the evidence we needed for As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group Our audit procedures at the Group level included the audit of the has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors consolidation, the UK and Group pension schemes due to their size intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial and certain tax procedures.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
94 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other required reporting the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and Consistency of other information explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
the directors explanation on page 40 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have ISAs UK & Ireland reporting assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and opinion: their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation information in the Annual Report is: that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, materially inconsistent with the information in the audited including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Financial Statements: or qualifications or assumptions.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the We have no exceptions to report.
principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and the statement given by the directors on page 88, in accordance with considering the directors process supporting their statements: provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements balanced and understandable and provides the information are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent our review.
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in We have no exceptions to report.
our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the section of the Annual Report on page 62, as required by this responsibility.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated Directors remuneration by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by We have no exceptions to report.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Corporate governance statement of the Group Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the directors confirmation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 95 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 March 2016 96 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Group Income Statement 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December Note m m CONTINUING OPERATIONS Net revenue 2 8,874 8,836 Cost of sales 3,628 3,740 Gross profit 5,246 5,096 Net operating expenses 3 3,005 2,932 Operating profit 2 2,241 2,164 Adjusted operating profit 2,374 2,185 Exceptional items 3 133 21 Operating profit 2,241 2,164 Finance income 6 21 27 Finance expense 6 54 65 Net finance expense 33 38 Profit before income tax 2,208 2,126 Income tax expense 7 463 462 Net income from continuing operations 1,745 1,664 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Net income from discontinued operations 28 278 Exceptional gain on non-cash dividend distributed 28 1,282 Net income from discontinued operations 1,560 Net income 1,745 3,224 Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1 Attributable to owners of the parent 1,743 3,223 Net income 1,745 3,224 Basic earnings per ordinary share From continuing operations pence 8 244.4 230.7 From discontinued operations pence 8 216.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share From continuing operations pence 8 240.9 227.6 From discontinued operations pence 8 213.5 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 97 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Net income 1,745 3,224 Other comprehensive expense Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 7 124 191 Losses on net investment hedges, net of tax 7 49 137 Gains losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7 14 11 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations demerger, net of tax 7 33 3 126 342 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax 7 46 75 46 75 Other comprehensive expense, net of tax 80 417 Total comprehensive income 1,665 2,807 Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 Attributable to owners of the parent 1,663 2,807 Total comprehensive income 1,665 2,807 Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent arising from: Continuing operations 1,663 1,247 Discontinued operations 1,560 98 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Group Balance Sheet 2015 2014 As at 31 December Note m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 9 11,296 11,252 Property, plant and equipment 10 730 757 Deferred tax assets 11 57 61 Retirement benefit surplus 22 63 26 Other non-current receivables 13 240 240 12,386 12,336 Current assets Inventories 12 681 745 Trade and other receivables 13 1,331 1,307 Derivative financial instruments 14 121 130 Current tax recoverable 9 60 Available for sale financial assets 14 1 Cash and cash equivalents 15 740 917 2,882 3,160 Total assets 15,268 15,496 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 16 1,749 1,936 Short-term provisions for liabilities and charges 17 229 317 Trade and other payables 20 2,948 2,883 Derivative financial instruments 14 22 29 Current tax liabilities 21 91 124 5,039 5,289 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 16 671 636 Deferred tax liabilities 11 1,692 1,749 Retirement benefit obligations 22 257 338 Other provisions 17 115 73 Non-current tax liabilities 21 559 500 Other non-current liabilities 20 29 77 3,323 3,373 Total liabilities 8,362 8,662 Net assets 6,906 6,834 EQUITY Capital and reserves Share capital 23 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Merger reserve 14,229 14,229 Hedging reserve 25 18 4 Foreign currency translation reserve 25 964 824 Retained earnings 21,762 21,564 Attributable to owners of the parent 6,904 6,832 Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 2 Total equity 6,906 6,834 The Financial Statements on pages 97 to 137 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 22 March 2016 by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 99 Group Statement of Changes in Equity Total attributable to owners NonShare Share Merger Other Retained of the controlling Total capital premium reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 74 243 14,229 479 20,725 6,334 2 6,336 Comprehensive income expense Net income 3,223 3,223 1 3,224 Other comprehensive expense for theyear 341 75 416 1 417 Total comprehensive income expense 341 3,148 2,807 2,807 Transactions with owners Treasury shares reissued 23 112 112 112 Share-based payments 24 55 55 55 Current tax on share awards 7 14 14 14 Deferred tax on share awards 7 43 43 43 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17, 23 413 413 413 Cash dividends 29 988 988 988 Non-cash dividends 29 1,046 1,046 1,046 Total transactions with owners 2,309 2,309 2,309 Balance at 31 December 2014 74 243 14,229 820 21,564 6,832 2 6,834 Comprehensive income Net income 1,743 1,743 2 1,745 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 126 46 80 80 Total comprehensive income expense 126 1,789 1,663 2 1,665 Transactions with owners Treasury shares reissued 23 74 74 74 Share-based payments 24 50 50 50 Current tax on share awards 7 5 5 5 Deferred tax on share awards 7 8 8 8 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17, 23 804 804 804 Cash dividends 29 924 924 2 926 Total transactions with owners 1,591 1,591 2 1,593 Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 14,229 946 21,762 6,904 2 6,906 The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a merger under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006.
Refer to Note 25 for an explanation of other reserves.
100 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Group Cash Flow Statement 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December Note m m CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit from continuing operations 2,241 2,164 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 171 161 Fair value gains 33 1 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment assets 41 Decrease increase in inventories 22 44 Increase in trade and other receivables 218 168 Decrease increase in payables and provisions 23 179 Non-cash exceptional items 85 21 Share-based payments 50 53 Cash generated from operations 2,295 2,324 Interest paid 54 58 Interest received 23 26 Tax paid 480 416 Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 223 Net cash generated from operating activities 1,784 2,099 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment 154 157 Purchase of intangible assets 25 27 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 51 19 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 10 340 Maturity of short-term investments 3 1 Net cash transferred on demerger of RBP 195 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 1 Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 16 Net cash used in investing activities 134 715 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 23 804 313 Treasury shares reissued 23 74 112 Proceeds from borrowings 23 Repayment of borrowings 165 485 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 29 924 988 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 2 1 Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 481 Net cash used in financing activities 1,798 1,194 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 148 190 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 913 805 Exchange losses 28 82 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 737 913 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 15 740 917 Overdrafts 16 3 4 737 913 RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS Net cash generated from operating activities 1,784 2,099 Net purchases of property, plant and equipment 103 138 Net cash flow from operations 1,681 1,961 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 101 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Consolidation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Basis of Preparation Benckiser Group plc.
Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, and with those its returns.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Statements are also in compliance with IFRSs Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent These Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical that they do not represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial Subsidiaries accounting policies have been changed where necessary assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A summary of the Groups key accounting policies is set out below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair Foreign Currency Translation value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly is the Groups presentation currency.
observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and or currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange disclosure purposes in these Consolidated Financial Statements is rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except where transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions hedge accounting is applied.
that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable The Financial Statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. translated into Sterling on the following basis: Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires end date.
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the year.
revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge at the time, Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.
in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity on Adoption of New and Revised Standards consolidation.
There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations which have been adopted for the first time and have a significant impact on Business Combinations the accounting policies applied in preparing the annual Consolidated The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of Financial Statements of the Group.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the Management is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 acquisition date.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, IFRS 16 Leases Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the 1 January 2019 and the revised issuance of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and 1 January 2018. retrospectively applied.
A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any noneffective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial recorded as goodwill.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets Going Concern given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in incurred at the date of acquisition.
connection with the Viability Statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 45.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.
102 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued The Group also presents an alternative adjusted earnings per share calculation to exclude the impact of the exceptional items.
For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, Management believes that the use of adjusted measures such as liabilities and contingent liabilities with acquisition related costs adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings capitalised as part of the cost of acquisition.
per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders.
Disposal of Subsidiaries The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group Research and Development results up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Any amounts previously recognised in Other Comprehensive Income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had Development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is directly disposed of related assets and liabilities.
This may mean incurred, unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised amounts previously recognised in Other Comprehensive Income are and then amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
reclassified to the Income Statement.
Income Tax Non-Controlling Interests Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred On an  basis the non-controlling interest is tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the measured at either fair value or a proportionate share of the acquirees extent that it relates to items recognised in Other Comprehensive net assets.
Income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity, respectively.
Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with the owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the as a result of such transactions.
year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction, or substantively enacted, at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable Revenue in respect of previous years.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the Income Statement when the risks and rewards of ownership of the products Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary are passed to the customer.
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Net Revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition during the year and comprises gross sales net of trade spend, customer of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business allowances for credit notes, returns and consumer coupons.
The combination that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns at that time.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that and consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset or liability is projected market conditions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, temporary differences can be utilised.
placement listing fees and promotional allowances, is governed by sales agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect investments in subsidiaries except where the investor is able to control the expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These the timing of temporary differences and it is probable that the accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Net Revenue also includes royalty income arising from the licensed use Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are of our brands recognised on an accruals basis.
offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention to Value Added Tax and other sales taxes are excluded from Net Revenue.
settle these balances on a net basis.
Operating Segments Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the i Goodwill internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision-Maker Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since 4 January 1998 is CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and included in intangible assets.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified this date has not been reinstated.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash as the Executive Committee.
generating unit CGU, or group of CGUs, to which it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less Exceptional Items accumulated impairment losses.
Where material, non-recurring expenses or income are incurred during a period, these items are disclosed as exceptional items in the Income ii Brands Statement.
Examples of such items are: Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated Restructuring and other expenses relating to the integration of an amortisation and impairment.
Brands acquired as part of a business acquired business and related expenses for reconfiguration of the combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, where Groups activities.
Brands are amortised over their useful Impairments of current and non-current assets.
economic life, except when their life is determined as being indefinite.
Gains losses on disposal of businesses.
Costs arising as a result of material and non-recurring regulatory and litigation matters.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting Policies continued Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at lease of the brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in inception at the lower of the assets fair value and the present value of building its brands through an ongoing programme of product the minimum lease payments.
Obligations related to finance leases, net innovation and increasing marketing investment.
Within the Group, of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as a brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more appropriate within borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the is charged to the Income Statement over the life of the lease so as to brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer of the liability for each period.
Leased property, plant and equipment interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash are depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or generating units to which they relate and are tested annually over the life of the lease, if shorter.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of A review of the useful economic life of brands is performed annually, to ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals ensure that these lives are still appropriate.
If a brand is considered to net of any related lease incentives are charged against profit on a have a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over that period.
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
iii Distribution Rights Impairment of Assets Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested annually reacquired distribution rights are capitalised where the rights comply for impairment at the level where cash flows are considered to be with the above requirements for recognition of acquired brands.
This is at either a CGU level, or as a group of registration or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the CGUs.
All assets are tested for impairment if there is an event or intangible asset is amortised over that period.
If no time period circumstance that indicates that their carrying value may not be is defined, the intangible asset is treated in the same way as recoverable.
If an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount acquired brands.
an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs iv Software of disposal and its value in use.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows for Enterprise Resource Planning systems and five years or less for all expected to be generated by an asset or group of assets where cash other software licences.
flows are not identifiable to specific assets.
The pre-tax discount rate used in asset impairment reviews is based on a weighted average cost Property, Plant and Equipment of capital for comparable companies operating in similar markets and Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated geographies as the Group including, where appropriate, an adjustment depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, for the specific risks associated with the relevant CGU.
which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Except for Inventories freehold land and assets under construction, the cost of property, plant Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
and equipment is written off on a straight-line basis over the period of Cost comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of the expected useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are overhead expenses based on normal operating capacity required to determined within the following limits: get the inventory to its present location and condition.
Inventory Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: valuation is determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
Net realisable Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the value represents the estimated selling price less applicable selling lease: and expenses.
Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years except for environmental assets which are not more than 20 years.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
If there is written off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full equipment over five years or less.
amount of the receivable, an impairment is recognised through the Income Statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if probability that a debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial necessary, at each Balance Sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The impairment is indicate that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
Freehold calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
receivable and the present value of the related estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the assets carrying value with any sale proceeds, and are included in the Income Statement.
104 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Employee Share Schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share Cash and Cash Equivalents option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits non-market conditions.
with a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, bank overdrafts that form share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the an integral part of the Groups cash management, and are repayable on vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The Other bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in Balance Sheet.
profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, charged, including social security taxes, to the Income Statement over interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective The proceeds received from the exercise of share options, net of any interest basis.
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activity The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating Pension Commitments interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are unfunded defined benefit pension plans.
subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item defined contribution plans is charged to the Income Statement as being hedged.
Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are treated contributions are made.
The Group has no further payment obligations as a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
once the contributions have been paid.
At inception the relationship between the hedging instrument and the The deficit or surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the effectiveness of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined the derivative instrument used in the hedging transaction in offsetting benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of the changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument remains an effective present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by hedge of the transaction.
discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion of be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to the terms of the changes in the fair value is recognised in Other Comprehensive pension obligations.
The costs of providing these defined benefit plans Income.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is are accrued over the period of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income.
Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income are recycled Where individual pension schemes have an IAS19 surplus this has been to the Income Statement in the period when the hedged item will recognised as an asset based on an assessment of the likelihood of affect profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or recovery of the pension asset.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in Other Comprehensive Income at that time Past-service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
remains in Other Comprehensive Income, and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate Statement.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the occur, the cumulative gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income period to the net defined benefit liability asset.
is immediately transferred to the Income Statement.
The net pension plan interest is presented as finance income expense.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value Post-Retirement Benefits Other than Pensions of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the period of employment and the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet Net Investment Hedges is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges to its present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income to the extent that the hedging relationship is Provisions effective.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or translation reserve are included in the Income Statement when the constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than foreign operation is disposed of.
not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at the present value of the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting Policies continued Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits Share Capital Transactions in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years refer to When the Group purchases equity share capital, the amount of the Note 11. consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury, in The Group is subject to tax audits and uncertainties in a number of order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to jurisdictions.
The issues involved can be complex and disputes may maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the take a number of years to resolve.
Each uncertainty is separately shares cancelled would be transferred from retained earnings to the assessed and the provision recognised depends on the specific capital redemption reserve.
The accounting estimates and judgements considered include: Dividend Distribution Status of the unresolved matter: Dividends to owners of the Parent Company are recognised as a liability Strength of technical argument and clarity of legislation: in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which External advice: they are approved and paid.
Resolution process, past experience and precedence set with the particular taxing authority: Dividend payments are recorded at fair value.
Where non-cash dividend Agreements previously reached in other jurisdictions on payments are made, gains or losses arising as a result of fair value comparable issues: and remeasurements are recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements In the application of the Groups accounting policies the Directors are Management is of the opinion that the carrying values of the liabilities required to make a number of judgements, estimates and assumptions recognised in respect of these matters represent the most accurate about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily measurement once all facts and circumstances have been taken into apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions account.
The liabilities are included in amounts disclosed in Note 21. are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have a basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects discussed below: both current and future periods.
Where there are estimates and Estimates of future business performance and cash generation, judgements disclosed together these have been included in the critical discount rates and long-term growth rates supporting the net book judgements section below.
amount of indefinite life intangible assets at the balance sheet date refer to Note 9.
If the actual results should differ, or changes in Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which The following are the critical judgements, that the Directors have made would adversely impact operating results.
in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, that have Measurement of intangible assets both in business combinations the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Groups and other asset acquisitions requires the Group to identify such Financial Statements.
Assumptions and estimates are made about future cash The Group recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified intangible Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory assets refer to Note 27. civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for legal judgement is important Note 17.
These are valued based on promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the the Directors best estimates taking into account all available year end, an accrual is reflected in the consolidated Financial information, external advice and historical experience.
Statements based on our estimation of customer and consumer The Group has identified matters which may incur liabilities in the uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which future, but do not recognise these where it is too early to determine temporary promotional activity has occurred.
Details of trade spend the likely outcome or make a reliable estimate.
accrued as at year end are provided in Note 20.
The continuing enduring nature of the Groups brands supports the The value of the Groups defined benefit pension plan obligations indefinite life assumption of these assets refer to Note 9. are dependent on a number of key assumptions.
These include The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and assumptions over the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, the regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the discount rate to be applied, the level of inflation and the life Group operates.
Assumptions are made in applying these laws to expectancy of the schemes members.
Details of the key assumptions the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax and the sensitivity of the principal schemes carrying value to charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is changes in the assumptions are set out in Note 22. different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period in which it is determined refer to Note 7.
106 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 2 Operating Segments The Executive Committee is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Committee for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing performance.
The Executive Committee considers the business principally from a geographical perspective, but with Food being managed separately given the significantly different nature of this business and the associated risks and rewards.
In February 2015, the Group announced the reorganisation of its geographical segments into a revised ENA and DvM.
ENA comprises Europe, Russia CIS, Israel, North America, Australia and New Zealand.
DvM principally comprises North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America, Japan, Korea and ASEAN.
Comparative information has been restated on a consistentbasis.
The geographical segments derive their revenue primarily from the sale of branded products in the Health, Hygiene and Home categories.
Food derives its revenue from food products primarily sold in ENA countries.
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on Net Revenue from external customers and Adjusted operating profit.
Intercompany transactions between operating segments are eliminated.
Finance income and expense are not allocated to segments, as they are managed on a central Group basis.
The segment information provided to the Executive Committee for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December is as follows: ENA DvM Food Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m Net Revenue 5,830 2,695 349 8,874 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 104 62 5 171 Adjusted operating profit 1,744 528 102 2,374 Exceptional items 133 Operating profit 2,241 Net finance expense 33 Profit before income tax 2,208 ENA DvM Food Total 1 Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m Net Revenue 5,891 2,629 316 8,836 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 96 61 4 161 Adjusted operating profit 1,640 460 85 2,185 Exceptional items 21 Operating profit 2,164 Net finance expense 38 Profit before income tax 2,126 1.
As a result of the Group reorganisation, the Group has restated comparative information to reflect results under the new operating structure consistent with reporting to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee reviews net working capital by segment and other assets and liabilities on a Group basis.
The split of assets and liabilities by segment provided to the Executive Committee is shown below.
Assets and liabilities not presented to the Executive Committee are shown below as a reconciling item.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating Segments continued The assets and liabilities are reported based upon the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset or liability.
There are a number of Group assets and liabilities that are not specifically attributable to one segment.
Reconciliation of these assets and liabilities to total assets or liabilities in the Balance Sheet is shown below: 2015 2014 m m Inventories for operating segments 721 766 Unallocated: Group adjustments 40 21 Total inventories per the Balance Sheet 681 745 Trade and other receivables for operating segments 1,288 1,294 Unallocated: Group items 43 13 Total trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 1,331 1,307 Total inventories and trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 2,012 2,052 Other unallocated assets 13,256 13,444 Total assets per the Balance Sheet 15,268 15,496 Trade and other payables for operating segments 2,715 2,630 Unallocated: Group items 233 253 Total trade and other payables per the Balance Sheet 2,948 2,883 Other unallocated liabilities 5,414 5,779 Total liabilities per the Balance Sheet 8,362 8,662 Group adjustments to inventory relate to the elimination of intercompany profit on inventory.
Unallocated assets include goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred and current tax, available for sale assets, retirement benefit surplus, other receivables, derivative financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents.
Unallocated liabilities include borrowings, provisions for liabilities and charges, current and deferred tax liabilities, other liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
108 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 2 Operating Segments continued The Company is domiciled in the UK.
The split of Net Revenue from external customers and Non-Current Assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets between the UK, the US being the single biggest country outside the country of domicile and that from all other countries is: All other UK US countries Total 2015 m m m m Net revenue from continuing operations 729 2,338 5,807 8,874 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,916 4,710 4,670 11,296 Property, plant and equipment 143 153 434 730 Other non-current receivables 12 38 190 240 All other UK US countries Total 2014 m m m m Net revenue from continuing operations 691 2,089 6,056 8,836 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,823 4,455 4,974 11,252 Property, plant and equipment 140 147 470 757 Other non-current receivables 2 32 206 240 The Net Revenue from external customers reported on a geographical basis above is measured consistently with that in the operating segments.
Major customers are typically large grocery chains, mass markets and multiple retailers.
The Groups customer base is diverse with no single external customer accounting for more than 10% of Net Revenue.
Analysis of Categories The primary analysis within the information provided to the Executive Committee is based on geographical areas above.
An analysis of Net Revenue by category is given below.
Net Revenue 2015 2014 m m Continuing Operations Health 2,942 2,701 Hygiene 3,589 3,627 Home 1,715 1,810 Portfolio Brands including Food 628 698 8,874 8,836 Health, Hygiene, Home and Portfolio Brands categories are all split across the two geographical segments of ENA and DvM.
Food is sold primarily in ENA but is recognised within a separate operating segment.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses 2015 2014 m m Distribution costs 2,165 2,251 Research and development 140 146 Other 575 528 Total administrative expenses 715 674 Other net operating income 8 14 Exceptional items 133 21 Net operating expenses 3,005 2,932 Net foreign exchange losses of 7 million 2014: 8 million have been recognised through the Income Statement.
These amounts exclude foreign exchange gains and losses recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Exceptional Items 2015 2014 m m Acquisition, integration and restructuring costs 76 62 Loss on disposal of subsidiary 57 Gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment 41 Total exceptional items 133 21 During the year, the Group incurred an exceptional charge of 133 million 2014: 21 million included within operating expenses, in respect of the following: 76 million 2014: 62 million of costs in relation to the ongoing restructuring of the Groups operations, and the integration of recent acquisitions.
Costs incurred in both the current and prior year consist primarily of redundancy, legal and professional fees and business integration costs.
57 million 2014: nil loss on disposal of Medcom-MP, the entity owning the Russian hospital business.
This included a loss of 33 million arising from the recycling, from equity, of previous exchange losses arising on consolidation of the legal entity sold Note 27. nil 2014: 41 million a one-off gain arising on a material disposal of fixed assets in relation to Group restructuring.
4 Auditors Remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys Auditor and its associates.
2015 2014 m m Audit services pursuant to legislation: Audit of the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements 2.0 1.7 Audit of the Financial Statements of the Groups subsidiaries 3.6 4.1 Audit related assurance services 0.2 2.7 Total audit and audit related services 5.8 8.5 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and its associates for other services: Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.2 Taxation advisory services 1.2 2.1 Other assurance services 0.1 All other non-audit services Total non-audit services 1.4 2.3 7.2 10.8 Included within Audit of the Financial Statements of the Groups subsidiaries is 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million in relation to the audit of the Financial Statements of associated pension plans of the Group.
In 2014, 0.1 million related to the audit of RB Pharmaceuticals and a further 2.3 million audit-related assurance services for the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals.
110 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 5 Employees Staff Costs 2015 2014 Note m m The total employment costs, including Directors, were: Wages and salaries 923 966 Social security costs 158 178 Other pension costs 22 27 46 Share-based payments 24 50 55 1,158 1,245 In 2014, included within staff costs is 86 million incurred in respect of the pharmaceutical business.
This amount is included within Net Income from discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
Details of Directors Emoluments are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 84, which forms part of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Compensation awarded to key management the Executive Committee was: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 17 12 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 22 20 Termination benefits 1 40 34 Termination benefits and share-based payments include contractual commitments made to key management in 2015, comprising cash payments and share awards.
Staff Numbers The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was: 1 2015 2014 000 000 Continuing operations ENA 15.5 17.6 DvM 18.0 17.7 Other 1.2 1.2 Discontinued operations RB Pharmaceuticals 0.7 34.7 37.2 1 2014 restated for new operating segments.
6 Net Finance Expense 2015 2014 m m Finance income Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 21 27 Total finance income 21 27 Finance expense Interest payable on borrowings 36 38 Net pension plan interest 8 8 Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans 5 8 Other finance expense 5 11 Total finance expense 54 65 Net finance expense 33 38 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7 Income Tax Expense 2015 2014 m m Current tax 483 549 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 92 22 Total current tax 575 527 Origination and reversal of temporary differences and adjustments in respect of prior periods 48 65 Impact of changes in tax rates 64 Total deferred tax Note 11 112 65 Income tax expense 463 462 Current tax includes tax incurred by UK entities of 75 million 2014: 73 million.
This is comprised of UK corporation tax of 53 million 2014: 37 million and overseas tax suffered of 22 million 2014: 36 million.
UK current tax is calculated at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year, net of relief for overseas taxes where available.
Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The deferred tax impact of changes in tax rates of 64 million primarily relates to the enactment of reductions in the future UK corporation rate from 20% to 18%.
This results in a reduction in closing deferred tax liabilities.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences and adjustments in respect of prior periods includes adjustments in respect of prior periods of 14 million 2014: 29 million.
The total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2015 2014 m m Profit before income tax 2,208 2,126 Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 447 457 Effects of: Tax at rates other than the UK corporation tax rate 145 177 Adjustments to amounts carried in respect of unresolved tax matters 51 126 Incurrence of tax losses 5 1 Withholding and local taxes 13 22 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 106 7 Impact of changes in tax rates 64 Exceptional items 19 3 Other permanent differences 31 29 Income tax expense 463 462 The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
Accordingly, the Groups profits for the year ended 31 December 2015 are reconciled to an effective UK rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
The tax charge is expected to be impacted by items in the nature of those listed above for the foreseeable future.
The tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive expense income is as follows: 2015 2014 Tax credit Before tax charge After tax Before tax Tax credit After tax m m m m m m Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation 124 124 191 191 Gains losses on cash flow and net investment hedges 34 1 35 148 148 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on demerger or disposal of foreign operations Note 3 33 33 3 3 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans Note 22 63 17 46 105 30 75 Other comprehensive expense income 62 18 80 447 30 417 Current tax 4 Deferred tax Note 11 22 30 18 30 The tax related to share-based payments credited charged directly to the Statement of Changes in Equity during the year is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Current tax 5 14 Deferred tax Note 11 8 43 13 29 112 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 8 Earnings per Share 2015 2014 pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing operations 244.4 230.7 From discontinued operations 216.4 Total basic earnings per share 244.4 447.1 Diluted earnings per share From continuing operations 240.9 227.6 From discontinued operations 213.5 Total diluted earnings per share 240.9 441.1 Adjusted basic earnings per share From continuing operations 262.4 233.6 From discontinued operations 38.6 Total adjusted basic earnings per share 262.4 272.2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share From continuing operations 258.6 230.5 From discontinued operations 38.0 Total adjusted diluted earnings per share 258.6 268.5 Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 2015: 1,743 million: 2014: 1,663 million and discontinued operations 2015: nil: 2014: 1,560 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 2015: 713,063,230: 2014: 720,823,744.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
The Company has the following categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Awards including Executive Share Options and Executive Restricted Share Scheme Awards and Employee Sharesave Scheme Options.
The options only dilute earnings when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price of the share and when all performance criteria if applicable have been met.
As at 31 December 2015, there were 4 million 2014: 4 million Executive Share Awards excluded from the dilution because the exercise price for the options was greater than the average share price for the year.
2015 2014 Average Average number of number of shares shares On a basic basis 713,063,230 720,823,744 Dilution for Executive Share Awards 9,680,716 9,035,862 Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options outstanding 802,516 880,704 On a diluted basis 723,546,462 730,740,310 Adjusted Earnings The Directors believe that diluted earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for the impact of exceptional items after the appropriate tax amount, provides additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders in respect of earnings per ordinary share.
Details of the Adjusted Net Income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations are as follows: 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,743 1,663 Exceptional items 133 21 Tax effect of exceptional items 5 Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 1,871 1,684 2015 2014 Discontinued operations m m Net income attributable to owners of the parent from discontinued operations 1,560 Exceptional gain on non-cash dividend 1,282 Tax effect of exceptional items Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent from discontinued operations 278 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Brands Goodwill Software Other Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 7,717 3,312 76 283 11,388 Additions 1 26 15 42 Arising on business combinations 304 23 327 Disposals 33 4 37 Divested upon demerger 179 179 Exchange adjustments 51 53 1 4 109 At 31 December 2014 7,938 3,282 97 115 11,432 Additions 25 25 Arising on business combinations 6 6 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 31 15 8 38 At 31 December 2015 7,969 3,303 121 107 11,500 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2014 86 27 20 114 247 Amortisation and impairment charge 3 8 33 44 Disposals 4 4 Divested upon demerger 102 102 Exchange adjustments 3 1 1 5 At 31 December 2014 89 24 23 44 180 Amortisation and impairment charge 3 15 15 33 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 3 5 8 At 31 December 2015 92 21 37 54 204 Net book value At 31 December 2014 7,849 3,258 74 71 11,252 At 31 December 2015 7,877 3,282 84 53 11,296 The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the date of acquisition.
Other includes product registration, and distribution rights.
Software includes intangible assets under construction of 14 million 2014: 7 million.
Included within the 2014 amortisation and impairment charge for the year is 15 million relating to the pharmaceutical business.
These amounts are included within Net Income from discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangibles are considered to have indefinite lives for the reasons noted in the Accounting Policies and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review.
A number of small non-core brands are deemed to have a finite life and are amortised accordingly.
The net book amounts of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows: 2015 2014 Net book amount m m Indefinite life assets: Brands 7,857 7,826 Goodwill 3,282 3,258 Other 40 40 Total indefinite life assets 11,179 11,124 Finite life assets: Brands 20 23 Software 84 74 Other 13 31 Total finite life assets 117 128 Total net book amount of intangible assets 11,296 11,252 Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to either individual cash generating units CGUs, or groups of cash generating units together GCGUs.
The goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at the level at which identifiable cash inflows are largely independent.
Generally this is at a GCGU level, but for certain intangible assets this is at a CGU level.
114 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Cash Generating Units After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash inflows and how management monitors the business, the Directors have concluded that for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets, the Groups GCGUs are as follows: Health, Hygiene, Home, and Food.
During the year, the integration of K-Y into the Sexual Wellbeing CGU has largely been completed.
As a result, K-Y is tested as part of this CGU.
Separate impairment testing was performed immediately prior to integration, at which point it was demonstrated that each CGU held a value in use in excess of its carrying value.
An analysis of the net book value of indefinite life assets and goodwill by GCGU is shown below: 2015 2014 Indefinite Indefinite life assets Goodwill Total life assets Goodwill Total GCGU Powerbrands m m m m m m 1 Health Durex, Gaviscon, Mucinex, Nurofen, Scholl, Strepsils 5,937 3,091 9,028 5,928 3,066 8,994 Hygiene Bang, Clearasil, Dettol, Finish, Harpic, Lysol, Mortein, Veet 1,175 146 1,321 1,156 147 1,303 2 Home Air Wick, Calgon, Vanish, Woolite 751 45 796 750 45 795 Food Frenchs 34 34 32 32 7,897 3,282 11,179 7,866 3,258 11,124 1.
Within the Health GCGU, the cash flows in relation to certain groups of brands are separately identifiable.
As a result, the carrying value of these brand-related intangible assets, in conjunction with associated property, plant and equipment, have been tested for impairment as CGUs.
This is in addition to the impairment testing over goodwill and indefinite life assets for the wider GCGU.
The CGUs tested separately are shown below, all of which fall under the Health GCGU in the above table.
2015 2014 Carrying Value of CGU m m Sexual Wellbeing 2,041 1,793 KY 304 Oriental Pharma 118 117 VMS 892 844 Indefinite life assets relating to the Food GCGU are not considered significant relative to the Groups total indefinite life assets.
As such the disclosures below do not include discussion on the assumptions specific to Food.
Annual Impairment Review The annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite life assets is based on an assessment of each GCGUs or CGUs value in use.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections, based on historical operating results, short-term budgets, and medium-term business plans, which have each been approved by management and covers a five-year period.
These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from restructuring not yet implemented.
The value in use calculation is based on the following key assumptions used in the cash flow projections: Net Revenue growth based upon forecast future sales volumes and prices, which take account of the expected impact from committed new product initiatives, geographical expansion and the maturity of the markets in which each GCGU or CGU operates: Gross Margin based on historical experience adjusted for the impact of forecast production costs, cost optimisation initiatives and changes in product mix: and Marketing and other expenditure, reflecting historical experience, expected levels of cost inflation, committed cost saving initiatives and future levels of marketing support required to sustain, grow and further innovate brands.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates stated below.
The long-term growth rates applied do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products and markets in which the GCGU or CGU operates.
Management has assessed the appropriate discount rate to apply to the cash flow projections for each individual GCGU and CGU.
This has been done using a Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group, adjusted for risks specific to each GCGU and CGU.
Due to the wide geographic and product diversification of their respective markets, and the diverse risks associated with a number of GCGUs and CGUs, a pre-tax discount rate of 10% was determined for each of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs as well as the Sexual Wellbeing CGU 2014: 11%.
The VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs are predominantly concentrated in single markets, being the US and China respectively.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13% 2014: 14% was therefore applied to VMS and 12% 2014: 14% was applied to Oriental Pharma, to reflect the risks specific to these businesses.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued 2015 2014 Pre-tax Terminal discount Terminal growth Pre-tax discount GCGU CGU growth rate % rate % rate % rate % Health 14 10 04 11 Hygiene 04 10 04 11 Home 02 10 02 11 Sexual Wellbeing 4 10 4 11 Oriental Pharma 4 12 4 14 VMS 3 13 3 14 Following the Groups annual impairment review, no impairments have been identified.
Any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs, or the Sexual Wellbeing CGU, are based would not imply possible impairments.
With a value in use exceeding its carrying value by 106 million 12% 2014: 116 million, 14%, the VMS CGU is sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
The sensitivity of the recoverable amount has been assessed to identify the impact of reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of those forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 61 million.
In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in an additional reduction in the value in use of 67 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in the carrying value of this CGU exceeding its value in use by 22 million.
The value in use of the Oriental Pharma CGU is equal to its carrying value, and as such is also sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of that forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 19 million.
In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in an additional reduction in the value in use of 9 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in the carrying value of this CGU exceeding its value in use by 28 million.
10 Property, Plant and Equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 576 1,322 1,898 Additions 7 151 158 Disposals 30 50 80 Divested upon demerger 18 18 Reclassifications 22 22 Exchange adjustments 44 193 237 At 31 December 2014 531 1,190 1,721 Additions 15 139 154 Disposals 10 60 70 Reclassifications 39 39 Exchange adjustments 17 64 81 At 31 December 2015 558 1,166 1,724 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2014 224 913 1,137 Charge for the year 26 107 133 Disposals 20 41 61 Divested upon demerger 14 14 Exchange adjustments 39 192 231 At 31 December 2014 191 773 964 Charge for the year 30 107 137 Disposals 8 50 58 Impairment losses 5 5 10 Exchange adjustments 8 51 59 At 31 December 2015 210 784 994 Net book value As at 31 December 2014 340 417 757 As at 31 December 2015 348 382 730 The net book amount of assets under construction is 57 million 2014: 78 million.
Assets under construction are included within plant and equipment and are not depreciated.
116 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 10 Property, Plant and Equipment continued The reclassification from plant and equipment to land and buildings of 39 million 2014: 22 million shows the transfer of completed assets.
Impairment losses of 10 million 2014: nil have been charged to exceptional items as they relate to ongoing restructuring of the Groups operations.
Capital expenditure which was contracted but not capitalised at 31 December 2015 was 44 million 2014: 27 million.
11 Deferred Tax Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 9 13 43 8 47 Charged credited to the Income Statement 1 4 11 14 Credited to Other Comprehensive Income 4 4 Exchange differences 1 1 2 4 At 31 December 2014 7 10 52 12 61 Charged credited to the Income Statement 13 22 9 Charged to Other Comprehensive Income 6 6 Exchange differences 3 9 1 7 At 31 December 2015 7 20 59 11 57 Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 20 2,024 276 10 56 1,702 Credited charged to the Income Statement 6 1 55 14 48 Credited to Other Comprehensive Income 26 26 Charged directly to equity 43 43 Arising on demerger 4 54 50 Exchange differences 1 21 8 2 28 At 31 December 2014 15 2,040 226 10 70 1,749 Credited charged to the Income Statement 1 66 45 1 10 103 Credited charged to Other Comprehensive Income 3 19 16 Credited directly to equity 8 8 Arising on acquisition 6 6 Exchange differences 37 2 3 32 At 31 December 2015 14 2,017 284 11 44 1,692 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Certain deferred tax assets in respect of corporation tax losses and other temporary differences totalling 98 million 2014: 137 million have not been recognised at 31 December 2015 as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured.
These assets will be recognised if utilisation of the losses and other temporary differences becomes sufficiently probable.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group.
12 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 144 157 Work in progress 23 28 Finished goods and goods held for resale 514 560 Total inventories 681 745 The total cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 3,431 million 2014: 3,526 million.
This includes inventory write offs and losses of 51 million 2014: 58 million.
The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2015 was 63 million 2014: 81 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 117 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Trade and Other Receivables 2015 2014 Amounts falling due within one year m m Trade receivables 1,190 1,069 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 26 33 Trade receivables net 1,164 1,036 Other receivables 129 233 Prepayments and accrued income 38 38 1,331 1,307 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2015 2014 m m Sterling 109 167 Euro 248 261 US dollar 359 236 Brazil real 89 95 Other currencies 526 548 1,331 1,307 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
a Trade Receivables Trade receivables consist of a broad cross-section of our international customer base for whom there is no significant history of default.
The credit risk of customers is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of 126 million 2014: 72 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows: 2015 2014 Amounts past due but not impaired m m Up to 3 months 126 72 As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of 55 million 2014: 70 million were considered to be partially impaired.
The amount of provision at 31 December 2015 was 26 million 2014: 33 million.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered due to the nature and historical collection of trade receivables.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2015 2014 Ageing analysis of amounts impaired m m Up to 3 months 34 50 Over 3 months 21 20 55 70 The movement in the provision for impaired receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused provision released back to the Income Statement.
The gross movements in the provision are considered to be insignificant.
b Other Receivables Other Receivables include recoverable sales tax of 59 million 2014: 121 million.
This contains 5 million 2014: 6 million of impaired assets all aged over three months from a broad range of countries within the Group.
Other Non-Current Receivables Non-current other receivables at 31 December 2015 were 240 million 2014: 240 million.
This includes a prepayment of 143 million 2014: 194 million for an option to acquire legal title to intellectual property relating to our three year collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb entered into in May 2013 and exercisable at the end of the collaboration period in 2016, subject to certain payments.
This is in addition to the 311 million upfront payment paid in 2013.
In addition, the balance includes an insurance receivable of 36 million 2014: nil in respect of a legal provision held by the Group Note 17.
The remaining balance relates to other non-current prepayments, and receivables due after one year.
118 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management Financial Instruments by Category Derivatives Fair value Carrying Loans and used for through the Available value Fair value receivables hedging P&L for sale total total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 1 Short-term deposits 2 Trade and other receivables 1,328 1,328 1,328 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 38 83 121 121 Cash and cash equivalents 740 740 740 Derivatives Fair value Other financial Carrying used for through the liabilities at value Fair value hedging P&L amortised cost total total m m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and bond 1,748 1,748 1,748 4 US$1 billion bond two tranches of US$500 million at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively 671 671 683 3 Finance lease obligations 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 19 3 22 22 5,6 Trade and other payables 2,801 2,801 2,801 5 Other non-current liabilities 2 2 2 Derivatives Fair value Carrying Loans and used for through the Available value Fair value receivables hedging P&L for sale total total At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 1 Short-term deposits 1 1 1 2 Trade and other receivables 1,288 1,288 1,288 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 15 115 130 130 Cash and cash equivalents 917 917 917 Derivatives Fair value Other financial Carrying used for through the liabilities at value Fair value hedging P&L amortised cost total total m m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and bond 1,934 1,934 1,934 4 US$1 billion bond two tranches of US$500 million at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively 634 634 660 3 Finance lease obligations 4 4 4 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 11 18 29 29 5 Trade and other payables 2,675 2,675 2,675 5, 6 Other non-current liabilities 44 44 44 1.
These short-term deposits do not meet the requirements to be classified as cash equivalents as they have maturities greater than three months.
They are however highly liquid assets.
Prepayments and employee benefit assets are excluded from the trade and other receivables balance as the analysis above is required only for financial instruments.
The categories in this disclosure are determined by IAS 39.
Borrowings largely relate to Commercial Paper.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group had Commercial Paper in issue amounting to US$2,522 million nominal values at rates of between 0.23% and 0.92% with maturities ranging from 11 January 2016 to 10 November 2016.
Finance leases are outside the scope of IAS 39, but they remain within the scope of IFRS 7.
Therefore finance leases have been shown separately.
The fair value of bonds at 31 December 2015 is a liability of 683 million 2014: 660 million.
This value is derived using a quoted market rate in an active market level 1 classification.
Social security liabilities and other employee benefit liabilities are excluded as the analysis above is required only for financial instruments.
Included in trade and other payables is 25 million 2014: 28 million other non-current liabilities relating to the acquisition of the remaining shareholding of RB and Manon Business Co. Ltd. All material financial instruments, with the exception of the bond, are in level 2 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy.
Fair value for financial instruments held at amortised cost has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows: 1.
Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices level 2.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 is a liability of 22 million 2014: 29 million and an asset of 121 million 2014: 130 million.
This value is determined using forward exchange rates derived from market sourced data at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value level 2 classification.
As the value of level 3 instruments at 31 December 2015 is not material 2014: not material, no further level 3 disclosures have been made.
There have been no movements of financial instruments between levels 2014: nil.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts and cash that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements.
a Financial assets Gross amounts of recognised Net amounts Gross financial of financial Financial amounts of liabilities set assets instruments recognised off in the presented in not set off in financial balance the balance the balance Net assets sheet sheet sheet amount As at 31 December 2015 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 121 121 22 99 Cash and cash equivalents 740 740 740 861 861 22 839 Gross amounts of recognised Net amounts Gross financial of financial Financial amounts of liabilities set assets instruments recognised off in the presented in not set off in financial balance the balance the balance Net assets sheet sheet sheet amount As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 130 130 24 106 Cash and cash equivalents 917 917 917 1,047 1,047 24 1,023 b Financial liabilities Gross amounts of recognised Net amounts Gross financial of financial Financial amounts of assets set liabilities instruments recognised off in the presented in not set off in financial balance the balance the balance Net liabilities sheet sheet sheet amount As at 31 December 2015 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 22 22 22 Bank overdrafts 3 3 3 25 25 22 3 Gross amounts of recognised Net amounts Gross financial of financial Financial amounts of assets set liabilities instruments recognised off in the presented in not set off in financial balance the balance the balance Net liabilities sheet sheet sheet amount As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 29 29 24 5 Bank overdrafts 4 4 4 33 33 24 9 Financial Risk Management The Groups multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group.
The Groups financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale and control.
GT manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
GT manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves significant activities.
GT operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
120 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued 1.
Market Risk a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are located.
It is the Groups policy to monitor and only where appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure.
These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by local regulations.
GT matches the Group exposures, and hedges the position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 was 5,606 million payable 2014: 4,337 million payable.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group designated bonds totalling US$1,000 million 671 million as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
The hedged risk is the foreign exchange currency risk on the value of the Groups net investment in assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars.
The net gain or loss under this arrangement is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
The net effect on Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 was a 49 million loss 2014: 137 million loss.
If Sterling strengthens weakens by 5% against the US dollar, the impact on Shareholders equity due to net investment hedging would be 36 million.
The Groups strategy is to minimise Income Statement volatility by monitoring foreign currency exposures arising on intercompany balances, external financing, and external hedging arrangements.
The Groups hedging profile is regularly reviewed to ensure it is appropriate and to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts denominated as cash flow hedges primarily in Euro, US dollars, Sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and Brazilian real.
Notional value of the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows: 2015 2014 Cash Flow Hedge Profile m m Euro 597 432 US dollars 396 154 Sterling 163 153 Australian dollars 118 73 Canadian dollars 74 15 Brazilian real 70 17 Other 405 511 1,823 1,355 These forward foreign exchange contracts are expected to mature over the period January 2016 to March 2017 2014: January 2015 to February 2016.
The ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement arising from cash flow hedges is immaterial 2014: immaterial.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in Other Comprehensive Income on forward exchange contracts in 2015 of 14 million gain 2014: 11 million loss are recognised in the Income Statement in the year or years during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Income Statement, which is generally within 12 months from the Balance Sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the Balance Sheet.
In the case of cash flow hedges, these are denominated in a diverse range of currencies, where a fluctuation in one individual currency relationship, with all others held constant, does not have a significant effect on the Income Statement or Shareholders equity.
A fluctuation analysis has been performed for all currencies.
The four largest currency pairs and their potential fluctuations are as Euro US dollar, Euro Sterling, Euro Polish zloty and Euro Australian dollar.
If the Euro had strengthened weakened by 5% against any of the stated currencies, with all other variables held constant, the impact on Shareholders equity would have been a maximum of 31 million 2014: 2 million.
As at 31 December 2015 if all other currencies had strengthened weakened by 5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, this would have had an immaterial effect on the Income Statement or Shareholders equity 2014: immaterial.
The remaining major monetary financial instruments liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest bearing liabilities are directly denominated in the functional currency of the Group or are transferred to the functional currency of the local entity through the use of derivatives.
The gains and losses from fair value movements on derivatives held at fair value through the profit and loss, recognised in the Income Statement was a 75 million gain 2014: 116 million gain.
b Price risk Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil related, and a diverse range of other raw materials.
This risk is, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain key suppliers and is not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued c Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group monitors its interest income and expense rate exposure on a regular basis.
The Group manages its interest income rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate term deposits.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the Income Statement of a defined interest rate shift.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies, calculated on a full year and pre-tax basis.
The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions.
Based on the simulations performed, the impact on the Income Statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates would be a maximum increase of 5 million 2014: 7 million or decrease of 5 million 2014: 7 million respectively for the liabilities covered.
The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the maximum loss simulated is within the limit given by management.
2. Credit Risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers.
The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in Note 13.
Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a BBB rating or above.
The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk, and operationally only uses sub BBB rated counterparties by exception.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board of Directors.
Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties approved in accordance with the approved policy.
Derivative risk is measured using a risk weighting method.
The table below summarises the Groups major financial institution counterparties by credit rating lower of S&P and Moodys and balances cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity Risk Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and on an aggregated basis by GT.
GT monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the local businesses are generally remitted to GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or better.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international banks.
All of these facilities have similar or equivalent terms and conditions, and have a financial covenant, which is not expected to restrict the Groups future operations.
At the end of 2015, the Group had, in addition to its long-term debt of 671 million 2014: 636 million, committed borrowing facilities totalling 3,500 million 2014: 3,500 million, of which 3,500 million exceeded 12 months maturity 2014: 3,500 million.
Of the total facilities at the year end, nil 2014: nil was utilised.
The committed borrowing facilities, together with available uncommitted facilities and central cash and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at the balance sheet date, were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Undrawn committed borrowing facilities: Expiring within one year Expiring between one and two years Expiring after more than two years 3,500 3,500 3,500 3,500 All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest.
The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes including support for commercial paper issuance.
All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
122 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Headroom between net debt and available facilities at 31 December 2015 was 1,880 million 2014: 1,957 million.
The Groups borrowing limit at 31 December 2015 calculated in accordance with the Articles of Association was 63,399 million 2014: 63,186 million.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and the derivatives which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date, including interest to be paid.
Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over Total year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Commercial paper 1,712 1,712 Bonds 799 20 20 383 376 Other borrowings 43 43 Trade payables 981 981 Other payables 1,822 1,820 2 Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over Total year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Commercial paper 1,926 1,926 Bonds 774 18 18 370 368 Other borrowings 17 15 2 Trade payables 990 990 Other payables 1,735 1,685 50 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period between the Balance Sheet and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2015 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 5,602 4 Inflow 5,693 4 Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2014 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 4,328 9 Inflow 4,424 9 4.
Capital Management The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term available for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments Note 16.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the Group Balance Sheet.
2015 2014 m m Net debt Note 16 1,620 1,543 Total equity 6,906 6,834 8,526 8,377 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns for Shareholders, the Company provided returns to Shareholders in 2015 in the form of dividends and the buy back of shares.
Refer to Notes 29 and 23 respectively.
The Group monitors net debt and at year end the Group had net debt of 1,620 million 2014: 1,543 million.
The Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 Cash and Cash Equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 334 329 Short-term bank deposits 406 588 Cash and cash equivalents 740 917 The Group operates in a number of territories where there are either foreign currency exchange restrictions, or where it is difficult for the Group to extract cash readily and easily in the short-term.
As a result, 65 million 2014: 89 million of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted for use by the Group.
16 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 2015 2014 Current m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 42 13 2 Commercial paper 1,706 1,921 Finance lease obligations 1 2 1,749 1,936 2015 2014 Non-current m m Bonds 671 634 Finance lease obligations 2 671 636 1.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies: all are unsecured and bear interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
Commercial paper was issued in US dollars, is unsecured and bears interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
2015 2014 Maturity of debt m m Bank loans and overdrafts repayable: Within one year or on demand 42 13 Other borrowings repayable: Within one year: Commercial paper 1,706 1,921 Finance leases 1 2 Between two and five years: Bonds 337 318 Finance leases payable by instalments 2 Over five years: Bonds 334 316 2,378 2,559 Gross borrowings unsecured 2,420 2,572 2015 2014 Analysis of net debt m m Cash and cash equivalents 740 917 Overdrafts 3 4 Borrowings excluding overdrafts 2,417 2,568 Current available for sale financial assets 1 Derivative financial instruments 60 111 Net debt at end of year 1,620 1,543 2015 2014 Reconciliation of net debt m m Net debt at beginning of year 1,543 2,096 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 148 190 Proceeds from borrowings 23 Repayment of borrowings 165 485 Proceeds from borrowings attributable to discontinued operations 481 Borrowings divested upon demerger 467 Exchange and other movements 71 108 Net debt at end of year 1,620 1,543 124 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 17 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Legal Restructuring Other Total provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m At 1 January 2014 286 24 61 371 Charged to the Income Statement 10 4 24 38 Charged to equity 413 413 Arising on business combination 5 5 Utilised during the year 53 14 325 392 Released to the Income Statement 15 4 19 Divested upon demerger 25 25 Exchange adjustments 2 1 2 1 At 31 December 2014 201 13 176 390 Charged to the Income Statement 18 33 24 75 Charged to equity 800 800 Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 36 Utilised during the year 95 13 815 923 Released to the Income Statement 18 16 34 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2015 141 33 170 344 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2015 2014 m m Current 229 317 Non-current 115 73 344 390 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions of 141 million 2014: 201 million include exceptional legal provisions of 116 million 2014: 158 million in relation to a number of historic regulatory investigations, predominantly competition law inquiries, by various government authorities in a number of markets.
Amounts utilised during the year primarily relate to cases that were settled with government authorities, subject to appeal.
The restructuring provision relates principally to redundancies, the majority of which is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include obligations of the Group to acquire its own equity ordinary shares of 100 million 2014: 100 million within one year, onerous lease provisions expiring between 2016 and 2018 and environmental and other obligations throughout the Group, the majority of which are expected to be used within five years.
Provisions to acquire equity ordinary shares are charged to equity.
During the year the Group concluded it would be more appropriate to present the amount recoverable from insurers separately from the related obligation.
Accordingly a non-current receivable of 36 million has been recognised Note 13, with an equal increase in the related provision.
18 Operating Lease Commitments 2015 2014 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases due m m Within one year 49 59 Later than one and less than five years 95 79 After five years 9 13 153 151 Operating lease rentals charged to the Income Statement in 2015 were 60 million 2014: 69 million.
As at 31 December 2015, total amounts expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-lease arrangements were 1 million 2014: 2 million.
Amounts credited to the Income Statement in respect of sub-lease arrangements were 1 million 2014: 1 million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Contingent Liabilities The Group is involved in a number of civil and or criminal investigations by government authorities as well as litigation proceedings and has made provisions for such matters where appropriate.
Where it is too early to determine the likely outcome of such matters, or to make a reliable estimate, the Directors have made no provision for such potential liabilities.
Matters in relation to which the Group may incur liabilities include ongoing investigations by the US Department of Justice and the US Federal Trade Commission and others in relation to certain matters relating to the RB Pharmaceuticals business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC.
The Group from time to time is involved in disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
Where appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their assessment of each case.
20 Trade and Other Payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 981 990 Other payables 159 121 Other tax and social security payable 97 164 Accruals 1,711 1,608 2,948 2,883 Other payables include 39 million 2014:nil primarily relating to the acquisition of the remaining shareholding of RB and Manon Business Co. Ltd.
Included within accruals is 526 million 2014: 467 million in respect of amounts payable to our trade customers for trade spend.
Other non-current liabilities relate primarily to US employee related payables of 25 million 2014: 32 million and consideration for the acquisition of businesses of nil 2014: 39 million.
21 Current and Non-Current Tax Liabilities 2015 2014 m m Current tax liabilities 91 124 Non-current tax liabilities 559 500 Total current and non-current tax liabilities 650 624 Included in total current and non-current tax liabilities is an amount of 619 million 2014: 611 million which relates to tax contingencies primarily arising in relation to transfer pricing and financing.
These balances are subject to significant management judgement.
The operating risk in relation to tax laws and regulations is discussed on pages 160 to 161.
The Accounting Estimates and Judgements on page 106 describe the significant judgements made in estimating the impact of uncertain tax positions.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments Plan Details The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the world covering many of its employees, which are principally funded.
The Groups most significant defined benefit pension plan the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund is a final salary plan, which closed to new entrants in 2005.
Trustees of the plan are appointed by the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
The plan is funded by the payment of contributions to the plans Trust, which is a separate entity from the rest of the Group.
The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans in certain countries.
The major plan is in the US US Retiree Health Care Plan, where salaried participants become eligible for retiree health care benefits after they reach a combined age and years of service rendered figure of70, although the age must be a minimum of 55.
This plan closed to new members in 2009.
A Benefits Committee of the plan is appointed by the Group, and is responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
The following table provides details of membership for all plans in the two principal territories: Plan details at last valuation date UK US Active Participants: Number of members 365 1,878 Proportion of funding liability 13% 32% Total pensionable salary roll 15.3m 50.5m Participants with deferred benefits: Number of members 5,510 2,759 Proportion of funding liability 37% 24% Total deferred pensions at date of leaving plan 17.9m 2.7m Participants receiving benefits: Number of members 6,876 3,895 Proportion of funding liability 50% 44% Total pensions in payment 42.5m 7.3m 126 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued For the principal UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on a triennial basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out at 5 April 2013 and as a result of this the Group agreed that it would aim to eliminate the pension plan Technical Provisions deficit in the UK by the end of 2016.
In between valuations, the funding levels are monitored on an annual basis.
The current agreed contribution rate for future benefit build up in the principal UK Plan is 19.5% of pensionable salaries.
It is expected that contributions in 2016 will be 27 million to the principal UK Plan.
The Group will review expected contributions once the 5 April 2016 actuarial valuation is signed off by the Group and Trustees.
For the US Retiree Health Care Plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on an annual basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out at 1 January 2015.
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis with contributions made equal to the claims made each year.
It is expected that contributions in 2016 will be 6 million to the Plan.
For the purpose of IAS 19 the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, rolling forward the UK plan triennial valuation results at 5 April 2013 and the 1 January 2015 US plan valuation to 31 December 2015.
The UK plans have a weighted average duration of the deferred benefit obligation of 17.6 years 2014: 17.9 years.
Significant Actuarial Assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the Groups net liability for the two major plans as at 31 December were: 2015 2014 UK US Medical UK US Medical % % % % Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.3 3.3 Rate of increase in deferred pensions during deferment 3.1 3.1 Rate of increase in pension payments 2.9 2.9 Discount rate 3.8 4.2 3.5 3.9 Inflation assumption RPI 3.3 3.3 Annual medical cost inflation 5.08.5 5.09.0 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory.
The expected lifetime of a participant aged 60 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 60 in 15 years 20 years in the US are detailed below: 2015 2014 UK US UK US years years years years Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 28.6 25.7 28.5 26.1 Female 30.6 27.9 30.5 28.6 Number of years a future pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 30.4 27.5 30.3 27.9 Female 32.4 29.7 32.3 30.3 For the UK plan, the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table with medium cohort improvements to 2009 scaled by 90% for males and 100% for females.
Allowance for future improvements is made by adopting the 2012 edition of the CMI series with a long-term trend of 1.5% per annum.
For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the RP-2014 Total Employee and Health Annuitant Mortality Tables rolled back to 2006 and projected with Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2015.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Amounts Recognised on the Balance Sheet The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Balance Sheet obligations for: UK 61 US Medical 122 145 Other 135 132 Liability in Balance Sheet 257 338 Balance Sheet assets for: UK 33 Other 30 26 Asset in Balance Sheet 63 26 Net pension liability 194 312 Where individual pension schemes have an IAS 19 surplus this has been recognised as an asset based on an assessment of the likelihood of recovery of the pension asset.
The funded and unfunded amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2015 2014 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 1,322 302 1,624 1,400 293 1,693 Fair value of plan assets 1,355 321 1,676 1,339 311 1,650 Surplus deficit of funded plans 33 19 52 61 18 43 Present value of unfunded obligations 122 124 246 145 124 269 Net pension asset liability 33 122 105 194 61 145 106 312 Group plan assets are comprised as follows: 2015 2014 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Equities quoted 407 166 573 393 177 570 Government bonds 521 21 542 531 7 538 Corporate bonds 266 57 323 261 63 324 Real Estate property unquoted 150 1 151 138 10 148 Other assets unquoted 11 76 87 16 54 70 Fair value of plan assets 1,355 321 1,676 1,339 311 1,650 128 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued The movement in the Groups net liability is as follows: Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 1,223 117 369 1,709 1,155 303 1,458 Current service cost 9 2 7 18 Interest expense income 53 6 12 71 51 12 63 62 8 19 89 51 12 63 Remeasurements: Return o n plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 124 4 120 Loss from changes in demographic assumptions 11 5 16 Loss from change in financial assumptions 155 20 29 204 Experience losses 2 3 5 166 22 37 225 124 4 120 Exchange differences 5 5 4 4 Contributions employees 1 1 1 1 Contributions employers 60 7 4 71 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 52 7 8 67 52 7 8 67 At 1 January 2015 1,400 145 417 1,962 1,339 311 1,650 Current service cost 8 2 12 22 Curtailment gains losses 19 19 Interest expense income 48 6 10 64 46 10 56 56 11 22 67 46 10 56 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 35 6 29 Gain loss from changes in demographic assumptions 9 2 7 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 75 5 1 81 Experience gains losses 5 1 2 4 80 15 3 92 35 6 29 Exchange differences 10 2 12 8 8 Contributions employees Contributions employers 59 7 4 70 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 54 7 18 79 54 7 18 79 As at 31 December 2015 1,322 122 426 1,870 1,355 321 1,676 The curtailment gain arose on the Group making certain amendments during the year to the US Medical Plan.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Amounts Recognised in the Income Statement The charge for the year ended 31 December is shown below: 2015 2014 1 Income statement charge credit included in operating profit for : m m Defined contribution plans 24 28 Defined benefit plans net charge credit excluding interest UK 8 9 US Medical 17 2 Other 12 7 Total pension costs recognised in operating profit Note 5 27 46 Income statement charge included in finance expense Note 6 8 8 Income statement charge included in profit before income tax 35 54 Remeasurement gains losses for: UK 45 42 US Medical 15 22 Other 3 41 63 105 1 The Income Statement charge included within operating profit includes current service cost, past service costs and gains and losses on settlement and curtailment.
Sensitivity of Significant Actuarial Assumptions The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is shown below: 2015 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4% Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3% 2014 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4% Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Impact of Medical Cost Trend Rates A 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: Impact on defined benefit obligation 2015 2014 1% 1% 1% 1% m m m m Effect on service cost and interest cost 1 1 2 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 19 15 25 20 Risk and Risk Management Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset Volatility: The plan obligations are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the obligations.
All the UK plans have agreed with the Company a plan to fide-risk the investment strategy of the plans at a pace that is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable time scale.
The fide-risking plan provides for a proportion of the investment portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time.
The corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on the UK and US.
However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan obligations and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in Bond Yields: A decrease in government and corporate bond yields will increase plan obligations, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
130 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Inflation Risk: Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher obligations although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
Life Expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member.
Whilst the plans allow for an increase in life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans obligations.
This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in Regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in the future.
The Groups pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property, and cash.
The Group believes that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long-term with an acceptable level of risk.
The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Company whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
23 Share Capital Equity Subscriber ordinary Nominal ordinary Nominal shares value shares value Issued and fully paid number m number m At 1 January 2014 736,535,179 74 2 Cancelled 2 At 31 December 2014 736,535,179 74 At 1 January 2015 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74 The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
The holders of subscriber ordinary shares par value 1 have no entitlement to dividends.
Holders have no right to attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or vary the rights attached to the subscriber shares.
During 2014, all subscriber ordinary shares were cancelled.
Allotment of Ordinary Shares and Release of Treasury Shares During the year nil ordinary shares 2014: nil ordinary shares were allotted and 3,111,173 ordinary shares were released from Treasury 2014: 4,775,359 to satisfy vestings exercises under the Groups various share schemes as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Consideration Number of Consideration Ordinary shares of 10p shares m shares m Executive Share Options exercises 1,532,150 45 3,502,236 106 Restricted Shares Awards vesting 530,992 1,000,381 Total under Executive Share Option and Restricted Share Schemes 2,063,142 45 4,502,617 106 Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan vesting 23,270 50,000 Savings-Related Share Option Schemes exercises 1,024,761 29 222,742 6 Total 3,111,173 74 4,775,359 112 Market Purchases of Shares During 2015 the Company purchased 13,615,832 equity ordinary shares in accordance with its share buyback programme 2014: 6,000,000, all of which are held as Treasury shares.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 800 million 804 million including stamp duty which has been deducted from Shareholders equity 2014: 314 million including stamp duty.
Proceeds received from the reissuance of Treasury shares to exercise share options were 74 million 2014: 112 million.
In addition, a provision for 100 million 2014: 100 million was created for buyback amounts committed but not transacted at year end.
24 Share-Based Payments The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a share option scheme, a restricted share scheme, and other share award schemes.
All schemes are equity settled.
The charge for share-based payments for the year was 50 million 2014: 55 million.
Executive Share Awards Executive share awards, comprising both Executive Share Options and Restricted Share Awards, are awarded to the Top400 management group.
Executive Share Options are awarded at an exercise price determined on grant date and become payable on exercise following satisfaction of performance criteria.
Restricted Share Awards entitle the recipient to receive shares at no cost following satisfaction of the following performance criteria: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Share-Based Payments continued For awards granted before December 2012: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% 7% 8% 9 Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 40% 60% 80% 100% For awards granted in December 2013 and thereafter: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% Between 6% and 10% 10% Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100% The cost is spread over the three years of the performance period.
For Executive Committee and Top40 members vesting conditions must be met over the three-year period and are not retested.
For remaining Top400 members the targets can be retested after four or five years.
If any target has not been met any remaining shares or options which have not vested will lapse.
Other Share Awards Other share awards represent SAYE Schemes offered to all staff within the relevant geographic area and a number of Senior Executive Share Ownership Policy Plan SOPP awards.
Other share awards have contractual lives of between three and eight years and are generally not subject to any vesting criteria other than the employees continued employment.
Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore have been aggregated in the tables below.
Modifications to Share Awards The Remuneration Committee approved modifications to all unexercised share schemes in December 2014 following the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals to compensate for the loss of scheme value.
For SAYE schemes this was in the form of a one-off cash payment.
For executive share awards this included an adjustment to shares under the amount of each grant, and the lowering of exercise price, where applicable.
There is no change to the IFRS fair value charge as a result of these modifications.
Summary of Shares Outstanding All outstanding Executive and Other share awards as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are included in the tables below which analyse the charge for 2015 and 2014.
The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of theaward.
Table 1: Fair value The most significant awards are share options and restricted shares, details of which have been provided below.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2015 that could have been exercised at that date were 3,826,583 2014: 3,449,012 with a weighted average exercise price of 27.92 2014: 29.06.
The assumptions made within the valuation calculation with respect to the achievement of performance criteria are based on the Directors expectations in light of the Groups business model and relevant published targets.
Under the terms of the schemes, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and therefore the effect of early exercise is not incorporated into the calculation.
The calculation also assumes that there will be no leavers in the following year.
No material modifications have been made to these calculations in 2015 or 2014 for the purposes of the valuation.
An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to the performance period or the contractual life as appropriate.
Historical volatility is calculated based on the annualised standard deviation of the Groups daily share price movement, being an approximation to the continuously compounded rate of return on the share.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
The contribution in 2015 was 51 million 2014: 38 million.
The weighted average share price for the year was 58.81 2014: 50.51.
Options and Restricted Shares Granted During the Year Options and restricted shares granted during the year which may vest or become exercisable at various dates between 2017 and 2020 are as follows: Price to be Number of paid shares under Executive share option and restricted share schemes option Reckitt Benckiser 2015 Long-term Incentive Plan share options 63.25 4,026,400 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan restricted shares 2,027,400 Reckitt Benckiser Group Senior Executive 2007 Share Ownership Policy Plan 46,000 Total 6,099,800 Savings-related share option schemes UK Scheme 48.71 173,240 US Scheme 48.71 110,762 Overseas Scheme 41.88 Total 284,002 Options and Restricted Shares Outstanding at 31 December 2015 Options and restricted shares which have vested or may vest at various dates between 2016 and 2021 are as follows: Price to be paid Number of shares under option Executive share option and restricted share schemes From To 2015 2014 Reckitt Benckiser 1999 Share Option Plan Annual Grant 17.60 18.10 106,919 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 Annual Grant options 21.95 22.57 113,346 197,892 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant options 26.54 63.25 15,901,584 16,000,642 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant restricted shares 6,369,315 6,313,514 Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan 166,000 160,000 22,550,245 22,778,967 Price to be paid Number of shares under option Savings-related share option schemes From To 2015 2014 UK Scheme 16.90 48.71 687,953 722,696 US Scheme 22.88 48.71 382,185 565,286 Overseas Scheme 21.95 41.88 1,058,195 1,897,407 Total 2,128,333 3,185,389 134 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 25 Other Reserves Foreign currency Hedging translation Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 15 494 479 Other comprehensive income expense Losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 11 11 Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 190 190 Losses on net investment hedges 137 137 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on demerger of subsidiary 3 3 Total other comprehensive income expense for the year 11 330 341 Balance at 31 December 2014 4 824 820 Other comprehensive income expense Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 14 14 Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 124 124 Losses on net investment hedges 49 49 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of subsidiary 33 33 Total other comprehensive income expense for the year 14 140 126 Balance at 31 December 2015 18 964 946 The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedge transactions that are in place at year end.
The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from the translation of the Financial Statements of the Groups foreign operations arising when the Groups entities are consolidated.
The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net exposure in a foreign currency.
26 Related Party Transactions RB & Manon Business Related to the forward contract to acquire the share capital held by the non-controlling Shareholders of RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd Manon, an additional settlement of 12 million was agreed during the 2015 calendar year which was conditional on completion of the new arrangements.
Of this amount, 8 million was included within profit and loss in 2015, with the remainder deferred until 2016.
See Note 30 for further details.
Indivior Subsequent to the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals on 23 December 2014, the Group continues to lease a building, and provide operational services to Indivior PLC.
The transitional services between the Group and Indivior PLC are on an arms length basis.
The amount included in other operating income in respect of these services is 8 million 2014: nil.
Adrian Hennah, the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO, also sits on the Board of Directors of Indivior PLC.
It was announced on 11 March 2016 that he would step down from the Indivior Board with effect from 11 May 2016.
Other Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 5.
There are no further related party transactions.
27 Acquisitions and Disposals In October 2015, in line with RBs continued focus on its core business of Health, Hygiene and Home, the Group disposed of the Medcom hospital business in Russia.
The reported loss on sale of the entity was 57 million.
This is included within exceptional items.
It comprises a 24 million difference between the net sale proceeds and the net assets: and a recycling from reserves of previous exchange losses arising on consolidation of the legal entity sold.
Due to the significant devaluation of the Russian rouble since acquisition, the non-cash exchange loss required to be recycled through the Income Statement was 33 million.
In 2014, the Group acquired the K-Y brand and related businesses.
This transaction was accounted for under IFRS 3: Business Combinations.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated and disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In 2015, the provisional values have been finalised leading to a 6 million increase in deferred tax liabilities and a related 6 million increase in Goodwill, 2014 amounts have not been restated.
In 2014, the Group licensed out the Scholl brand for use within the Footwear market and disposed of certain associated operating assets.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 135 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals On 23 December 2014, the Group demerged the pharmaceutical business in the form of a dividend in specie.
RB Pharmaceuticals was presented as a discontinued operation because it was no longer controlled by the Group.
The transaction was recognised and measured in accordance with IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners.
This treatment resulted in a gain on the distribution of non-cash assets to its Shareholders.
2014 m Fair value of the dividend paid 1,046 1 Carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed 292 Net realised losses in other comprehensive income reclassified to the Income Statement 3 Exceptional transaction costs deducted from gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax 59 Gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax 1,282 1 Included within the carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed is 195 million cash and 467 million of debt held by RB Pharmaceuticals on demerger.
The fair value of the dividend was determined by reference to the average closing price of Indivior PLC over the five trading days between 23 December 2014 and 31 December 2014.
Financial information relating to the operations of RB Pharmaceuticals for the period comparative is set out below.
The Group Income Statement and Group Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from continued operations.
Comparative figures have been restated.
The financial performance and cash flow information presented are for the period to 23 December 2014.
2014 For the year ended 31 December m Revenue 677 Expenses 308 Profit before income tax 369 Income tax expense 91 Net income from discontinued operations 278 The major classes of cash flows related to RB Pharmaceuticals are as follows: 2014 For the year ended 31 December m Cash flows from operating activities 223 Cash flows from investing activities 16 Cash flows from financing activities 481 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 688 29 Dividends 2015 2014 m m Cash dividends on equity ordinary shares: 2014 Final paid: 75p 2013: Final 77p per share 566 554 2015 Interim paid: 50.3p 2014: Interim 60p per share 358 434 924 988 Non-cash dividends on equity ordinary shares: Fair value of non-cash dividend 1,046 Total dividends for the year 924 2,034 On 23 December 2014 the pharmaceutical business was demerged by means of a non-cash dividend, granting all Reckitt Benckiser Group plc ordinary Shareholders new shares in the newly formed Indivior PLC.
The transaction was recognised and measured in accordance with IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 88.7p per share which will absorb an estimated 628 million of Shareholders funds.
If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 26 May 2016 to Shareholders who are on the register on 15 April 2016, with an ex-dividend date of 14 April 2016.
136 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 30 Post Balance Sheet Events Purchase of Hypermarcas contraceptive unit On 29 January 2016 the Group signed a definitive agreement, subject to regulatory approval, to acquire Hypermarcas Brazilian condom and lubricants business.
Hypermarcas is the leading Brazilian condom manufacturer, through its three brands Jontex, Olla and Lovetex.
RB & Manon Business Subsequent to the year end, on 2 March 2016, the Group completed new arrangements with the non-controlling Shareholders of Manon the non-controlling Shareholders, agreeing to terminate the existing arrangement, in line with the forward contract entered into in 2011, with RB agreeing to pay consideration totalling approximately 25 million to the non-controlling Shareholders.
An additional settlement amount of 12 million was also agreed with the non-controlling Shareholders during 2015 which was conditional on signing of the new arrangements.
Under the terms of the new agreements, the non-controlling Shareholders agreed to invest in two entities, RB China Trading Ltd and RB & Manon Business Ltd, thereby acquiring from RB 20% and 25% stakes in these entities respectively, whist retaining their 24.95% stake in Manon, for a combined consideration of approximately 25 million.
As part of the new arrangements, the parties are subject to symmetrical put and call options.
Under the put option, the non-controlling Shareholders will have the option to require RB to purchase their shareholdings in each of Manon, RB China Trading Ltd and RB & Manon Business Ltd together, after a period of six years, with possible extensions beyond this period available at the agreement of both parties.
Under the call option, RB will have the option to acquire each of these shareholdings together, under identical terms to the put option.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 137 Five Year Summary The five year summary below, is presented on a statutory basis.
The years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 show the results for continuing operations and exclude the impact of RB Pharmaceuticals.
The two preceding years, being the years ending 31 December 2012, and 31 December 2011 reflect the Income Statement of the whole Group.
The balance sheet has not been restated for the impact of discontinued operations.
Adjusted basis is calculated by excluding the exceptional items from net income for the year.
Inclusive of RB Pharmaceuticals business.
138 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and Our opinion explanations received In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs Parent Company Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Statements the Financial Statements : our opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs we have not received all the information and explanations we as at 31 December 2015: require for our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the What we have audited accounting records and returns.
The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: Directors remuneration the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion then ended: and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and United Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Our responsibilities and those of the directors Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Other required reporting and fair view.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We information in the Annual Report is: do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Statements: or consent in writing.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 139 Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued What an audit of Financial Statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 March 2016 140 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Parent Company Balance Sheet 2015 2014 As at 31 December Notes m m Fixed Assets Investments 2 14,810 14,774 Current Assets Debtors due within one year 3,6 95 131 Debtors due after one year 4,6 42 5 Cash and cash equivalents 6 1 138 136 Current Liabilities Creditors due within one year 5,6 8,685 6,994 Net Current Liabilities 8,547 6,858 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 6,263 7,916 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 7 211 165 Net Assets 6,052 7,751 EQUITY Capital and Reserves Share capital 8 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Retained earnings 5,735 7,434 Total Equity 6,052 7,751 The Financial Statements on pages 141 to 157 were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 141 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Share Share Retained Total capital premium earnings equity m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 74 243 8,586 8,903 Comprehensive income Profit for financial year 1,128 1,128 Total comprehensive income 1,128 1,128 Transactions with owners Treasury shares reissued 112 112 Share-based payments 10 10 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 413 413 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 45 45 Cash dividends 988 988 Non-cash dividends 1,046 1,046 Total transactions with owners 2,280 2,280 Balance at 31 December 2014 74 243 7,434 7,751 Comprehensive expense Loss for the financial year 90 90 Total comprehensive expense 90 90 Transactions with owners Treasury shares reissued 74 74 Share-based payments 9 9 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 804 804 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 36 36 Cash dividends 924 924 Total transactions with owners 1,609 1,609 Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 5,735 6,052 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has 5,282 million 2014: 7,025 million of its retained earnings available for distribution.
Details of Treasury shares and other equity transactions are included in Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
142 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
General Information and Basis of Accounting Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 166.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45.
Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102 issued by the Financial Reporting Council and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
There has been no impact on the first-time adoption of FRS 102.
The policies applied under FRS 102 are not materially different to the entitys previous accounting framework and have not impacted on equity or comprehensive income or expense.
The functional currency of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is considered to be Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
As permitted by s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a Statement of Comprehensive Income is not presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Company Financial Statements.
Exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102 FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions, subject to certain conditions, which have been complied with, including notification of the exemptions to, and no objection to their use by, the Companys Shareholders.
The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions: i from preparing a Statement of Cash Flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Group Cash Flow Statement, included in these Financial Statements, includes the Companys cash flows: ii from disclosing the Company key management personnel compensation, as required by FRS 102 paragraph 33.7.
Foreign Currency Translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Taxation The tax charge credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Fixed Assets Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less impairment.
A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with Section 27, Impairment of Assets.
Employee Share Schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with non-market conditions.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in comprehensive income or expense such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, including social security taxes, to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company Financial Statements.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 143 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued Financial Instruments The Company only enters into basic financial instruments transactions that result in the recognition of financial assets and liabilities like trade and other accounts receivable and payable and loans to and from related parties.
These transactions are initially recognised at cost and subsequently recognised at amortised cost.
i Financial Assets At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment.
If an asset is impaired the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is recognised in comprehensive income or expense.
Financial assets are derecognised when a the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or b substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party or c despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership, control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.
ii Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Share Capital Transactions When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from retained earnings.
Dividends Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation i. e. when they have been approved.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements In the application of the Companys accounting policies the Directors are required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the significant judgements made in applying the Companys accounting policies: The Company recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory, civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important.
2 Fixed Asset Investments Shares in subsidiary undertakings m Cost At 1 January 2014 14,729 Additions during the year 554 Demerger of subsidiary during the year 509 At 31 December 2014 14,774 Additions during the year 36 At 31 December 2015 14,810 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2014 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2014 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2015 Net book amounts At 31 December 2014 14,774 At 31 December 2015 14,810 144 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 2 Fixed Asset Investments continued The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
As part of the internal reorganisation in 2014, Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Inc, was made a direct investment of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc prior to demerger.
The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015, are shown in Note 15 of the Company Financial Statements.
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser plc, none of the subsidiaries are held directly by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
All subsidiaries have a financial year ending 31 December with the exception of Reckitt Benckiser India Limited which has a year ending 31 March and Lloyds Pharmaceuticals which has a year ending 24 August.
3 Debtors due within one year 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 95 131 Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand.
4 Debtors due after more than one year 2015 2014 m m Other debtors 36 Deferred tax assets 6 5 42 5 Other debtors includes an insurance receivable of 36 million 2014: nil in respect of a legal provision held by the Company in Note 7.
Deferred tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.
5 Creditors due within one year 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 8,677 6,989 Taxation and social security 8 5 8,685 6,994 Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of 8,669 million 2014: 6,989 million which is unsecured, carries interest at 3 month LIBOR and is repayable on demand.
All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand.
6 Financial Instruments 2015 2014 m m Financial Assets Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost 95 131 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 8,677 6,989 7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Share Legal buyback Total provisions provisions provisions m m m At 1 January 2014 222 222 Charged to equity 413 413 Divested upon demerger 15 15 Utilised during the year 313 313 Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 142 142 At 31 December 2014 65 100 165 Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 10 10 Charged to equity 800 800 Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 36 Utilised during the year 800 800 At 31 December 2015 111 100 211 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 145 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges continued Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2015 2014 m m Current 155 165 Non-current 56 211 165 Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions include indemnities provided by the Company.
Legal provisions released during the year relate to those for which an indemnity is no longer required.
For details of the share buyback provision during 2015 refer to Note 17 of the Group Financial Statements.
During the year, the Company concluded it would be more appropriate to present the amount recoverable from insurers separately from the related obligation.
Accordingly a debtor due after more than one year of 36 million has been recognised Note 4, with an equal increase in the related provision.
8 Share Capital Equity Nominal ordinary value Issued and fully paid shares m At 1 January 2015 736,535,179 74 Allotments At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74 Cancelled At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74 For details of the share buyback programme of ordinary shares during 2015 refer to Note 23 of the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
9 Share-Based Payments Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has two employees, the Groups CEO and CFO.
The tables below include details of their share awards granted to individuals whilst holding these roles, and those for any individuals previously holding these roles.
Details of their share awards that are not fully vested are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The charge for share-based payments for the year was 9 million 2014: 10 million and national insurance contributions were 8 million 2014: 5 million.
The Company is unable to directly measure the fair value of employee services received.
Instead the fair value of the share options granted during the year is determined using the Black-Scholes model.
The model is internationally recognised as being appropriate to value employee share schemes similar to the All employee and Key employee schemes.
The fair value of awards with options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is shown in Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
For details of the contractual life, performance criteria, valuation assumptions and volatility of the share awards, please refer to Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
For options outstanding at year end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options is 7.21 years 2014: 6.38 years.
10 Auditors Remuneration The fee charged for the statutory audit of the Company was 0.05 million 2014: 0.05 million.
11 Related Party Transactions Adrian Hennah, the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO, also sits on the Board of Directors of Indivior PLC.
There were no transactions with related parties other than wholly owned companies within the Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the requirements in Section 33, Related Party Disclosures to not disclose key management personnel compensation.
12 Contingent Liabilities The Company has issued a guarantee to the Trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of the Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined benefit pension fund.
The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund from these subsidiaries if they fail to meet their pension obligations.
The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to the issuance of a US$1 billion bond two tranches of US$500 million.
Details are included in Note 14 of the Group Financial Statements.
The Company has also issued other guarantees relating to subsidiary undertakings amounting to 1 million 2014: 1 million.
Other contingent liabilities are disclosed in Note 19 of the Group Financial Statements.
13 Dividends During 2015 the Directors declared an interim cash dividend of 50.3p 2014: 60p and proposed a final cash dividend of 88.7p 2014: 79p.
For further details, refer to Note 29 of the Group Financial Statements.
14 Post Balance Sheet Events There are no post balance sheet events to disclose.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 147 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015, all of which are included in the Group Financial Statements, are shown below.
Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held 0730033 BC Ltd CANADA 550 Burard Street Suite 2300, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2B5, Canada COMMON 100.00% 103-105 Bath Road Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Airwick Industrie SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Anhui Guilong Pharmaceutical Trading CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui Province, China ORD 100.00% Company Ltd  Lemore BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Benckiser UK 4th Floor, 115, George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4JN, Scotland ORD 100.00% Brevet Hospital Products UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% British Surgical Industries Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Canterbury Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Central Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Crookes Healthcare Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% Crookes Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Cupal Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Dakin Brothers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Dorincourt Holdings Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% Durex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Earex Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% ERH Propack Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Fenla Industria, Comercio e BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP 05577-900, ORD 100.00% Administracao Ltda Sao Paulo, Brazil Gainbridge Investments Cyprus Ltd CYPRUS 1 Lampousas Street, P. C. 1095, Nicosia, Cyprus ORD 100.00% Glasgow Square Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Green, Young & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Grosvenor Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui Province, China ORD 100.00% Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd CHINA 11F New Port Plaza, 10 Hubinbei Road, Xiamen, China 100.00% Xiamen Branch Hamol Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Helpcentral Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Howard Lloyd & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% J. and J.
Holdings Limited GUERNSEY Royal Chambers, St. Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AF ORD 100.00% Kukident GmbH GERMANY Heinestrasse 9, 69469 Weinheim, Germany ORD 100.00% Lancaster Square Holdings SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% LI Pensions Trust Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany A Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany A Limited NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands 100.00% Netherlands Branch Linden Germany B Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany B Limited NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands 100.00% Netherlands Branch Lloyds Pharmaceuticals UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% London International Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% London International Trading Asia Ltd HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, ORD 100.00% Hong Kong LRC Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% LRC North America Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States 148 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held LRC Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% LRC Products Limited Australian AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia 100.00% Branch LRC Secretarial Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Maddison Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Medcom LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
450, Belarus ORD 100.00% Medcom Marketing and Prodazha UKRAINE 1 Block, 120 40-Richchia Zhovtnia Ave. Kiev, 03127, Ukraine ORD 100.00% Ukraine LLC New Bridge Holdings BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% New Bridge Street Invoicing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Norwich Square Holding SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Nurofen Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Open Championship Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Optrex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Oriental Medicine Company Limited HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, ORD 100.00% Hong Kong Oxy Reckitt Benckiser LLC SOUTH KOREA 24th Floor Two IFC, 10 Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, ORD 100.00% 150-945 South Korea Paras Global FZE DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab Emirates ORD 100.00% Paras Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Paras Overseas Holding Limited DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab Emirates ORD 100.00% Pharmalab Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Propack Australia Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Propack GmbH GERMANY Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% Pt Reckitt Benckiser Indonesia INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53, ORD 100.00% Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Pt Reckitt Benckiser Trading Indonesia INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53, ORD 100.00% Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Qingdao London Durex Co Ltd CHINA No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong Province, China ORD 100.00% Qingdao New Bridge Corporate CHINA No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong Province, China ORD 100.00% Management Consulting Company Ltd R & C Nominees Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% R & C Nominees One Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% R & C Nominees Two Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB China Trading Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB China Holding Co Ltd CHINA 6th Floor, Tower D, Parkview Green Fang Cao Di, No.
9 Dongdaqiao Road, ORD 100.00% Chaoyang District, China RB Healthcare Pte Ltd Malaysia Branch MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 100.00% Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia RB Healthcare Pte Ltd in Liquidation SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% RB Holding Europe Du Sud SNC FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Luxembourg Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Nottingham Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Manufacturing LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares RB Reigate Ireland IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% RB Reigate UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Square Holdings Spain SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% RB UK Commercial Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 149 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held RB Winchester Ireland IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% RBH Verwertungs GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Jersey Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Overseas Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Capital Finance JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt & Colman Guangzhou Limited CHINA Economic and Technological Development Zone, Eastern, Guangzhou City, ORD 100.00% Guangdong Province, China Reckitt & Colman Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Management Services IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% Ireland Limited Reckitt & Colman Pension Trustee UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt & Colman Sagrotan GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%  mbH Reckitt & Colman Trustee Services UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt & Sons Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser 2012 BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Australia Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bangladesh Limited BANGLADESH 58 59 Nasirabad Industrial Area, Chittagong- 4209, Bangladesh ORD 82.96% Reckitt Benckiser Belgium SA NV BELGIUM Researchdreef, Alle fide la Recherche 20, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brands Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brasil Ltda BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP 05577-900, ORD 100.00% Sao Paulo, Brazil Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00% ISLANDS Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00% ISLANDS Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00% ISLANDS Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited UK Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
4 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands ORD 100.00% ISLANDS Reckitt Benckiser Canada Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada NEW 100.00% COMMON Reckitt Benckiser Cayman Islands CAYMAN PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand ORD 100.00% Limited ISLANDS Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands Reckitt Benckiser Centroamerica SA COSTA RICA San Jos, Escaz Corporate Center, 7 Piso, Costado Sur fide Multiplaza ORD 100.00% Escaz, San Jos, Costa Rica Reckitt Benckiser Channel Islands GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, ORD 100.00% Limited Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Czech Republic Spol CZECH REPUBLIC Vinohradsk 2828 151, 130 00 Praha 3-ikov, Czech Republic ORD 100.00% s r o Reckitt Benckiser Egypt Limited EGYPT Polyium Building 22, Off-road 90, District 1, 5th Settlement, New Cairo, ORD 100.00% Egypt Reckitt Benckiser ENA BV NETHERLANDS Schiphol Boulevard 267, 1118 BH Schiphol, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Espana SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% 150 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Reckitt Benckiser Granollers SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Grosvenor Holdings UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser India Limited INDIA 227, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi 110 020, India ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Lanka Limited SRI LANKA 41 Lauries Road, Colombo 4, Sri Lanka ORD 99.99% Reckitt Benckiser Latvia SIA LATVIA Strlnieku iela 1A 2, Riga, LV-1010, Latvia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Malaysia Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, ORD 100.00% Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Reckitt Benckiser Near East Limited ISRAEL 6 Hangar Street, I.
Z. Neve Neeman B Hod Hasharon 45250, P. O.
Israel Reckitt Benckiser New Zealand Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Nordic A S DENMARK Vandtrnsvej 83 A, 2860 Sborg, Denmark ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pars PJSC IRAN No 67, West Taban Avenue, Africa Boulevard, Tehran, Iran ORD 99.80% Reckitt Benckiser Poland SA POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Portugal SA PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, 1400-113 ORD 100.00% Lisbon, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Romania Srl ROMANIA Floor 5, Building A, 89-97 Grigore Alexandrescu Street, Bucarest, Romania ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE 100.00% Dubai Branch Reckitt Benckiser Singapore Pte Limited SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Slovak Republic Spol SLOVAKIA Drieov 3, 82108 Bratislava, Slovakia ORD 100.00% s r o Reckitt Benckiser South America NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Holding BV Reckitt Benckiser Spain BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Switzerland AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Thailand Limited THAILAND No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, 25th Floor, Ratchadaphisek ORD 45.00% Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Zimbabwe Private ZIMBABWE 3 Melbourne Road, Sutherton Road, Harare, Zimbabwe ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Argentina SA ARGENTINA Bucarelli 2608 PB A, CABA, Buenos Aires, Argentina ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited JAPAN c o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Japan Branch Reckitt Benckiser Austria GmbH AUSTRIA Guglgasse 15, A-1110 Wien Vienna, Austria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bahrain W. L. L BAHRAIN PO Box 50833, Hidd, Kingdom of Bahrain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brands Investments BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bulgaria Eood BULGARIA 22 Zlaten Rog Str 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser BY LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
403, Belarus COMMON 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Calgon BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chartres SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chile SA CHILE Av.
Kennedy Lateral 5454, Vitacura, Regin Metropolitana, Chile ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Colombia SA COLOMBIA Calle 46 # 5 76.
Cali, Colombia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Commercial Italia Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milan, Italy ORD 100.00% Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 151 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Reckitt Benckiser Corporate Services UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser d. o. o CROATIA Ulica grada Vukovara 269d, 10 000 Zagreb, Hrvatska, Croatia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser fide Mexico, SA fide CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, Atizapan fide ORD 100.00% Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser Detergents GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Deutschland GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser East Africa Limited KENYA Plot Lr No 209 2462, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya, Africa ORD 99.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ecuador SA ECUADOR Francisco Salazar E10-37 y Jose Luis Tamayo.
Quito, Ecuador ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Employees Trustees JERSEY Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES ORD 100.00% Jersey Limited Reckitt Benckiser Europe General UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom Partnership 100.00% Partnership Shares Reckitt Benckiser Europe General SWITZERLAND 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Partnership, Slough UK, Wallisellen Branch Swiss Branch Reckitt Benckiser Expatriate Services UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Fabric Treatment BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2005 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2007 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2010 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance Company UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Finish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser France SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser FSIA BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Central & UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Eastern Europe Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare CIS UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Ireland IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Italia SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare MEMA UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare PHILIPPINES Unit 2202 One Global Place, 5th Ave.
Corner 25th St. Bonifacio Global City, ORD 100.00% Philippines, Inc Taguig City 1634, Philippines Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Russia LLC RUSSIA Tverskaya 16 2 125009, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare UK UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Australia AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Pty Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare France SAS FRANCE 15 Rue Ampere, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India INDIA Plot No.
48, Institutional Area, Sector-32, Gurgaon 122 001, India ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% International Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare THAILAND 65 Moo 12 Lardkrabang-Bangplee Road, Bangplee Samutprakarn, Bangkok ORD PREF 45.00% Manufacturing Thailand Limited 10540, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Portugal PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, 1400-113 ORD 100.00% Ltda Lisbon, Portugal 152 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare SA SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Chemicals SA GREECE 7 Taki KavalieratouStreet, 145 64 Kifissia, Greece ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holding Thailand THAILAND No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, 25th Floor, Ratchadaphisek ORD PREF 45.00% Limited Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Holding GmbH & Co GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% KG Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, ORD 100.00% Islands Limited Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel UK 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter Port, 100.00% Islands Limited UK Branch Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Italia Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milan, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Luxembourg UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Overseas UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Limited Luxembourg Branch Reckitt Benckiser Home Chemical CHINA C6-8 site, 6F, No.
333 Futexi Road, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Shanghai ORD 100.00% Products Trading Shanghai Co City, China Limited Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited HONG KONG Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen's Road East, Hong Kong ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited TAIWAN 106 94043 Charity No.
136, Sec Taiwan 100.00% Taiwan Branch Reckitt Benckiser Household and UKRAINE 28A LG, Moscovskiy Prospekt, off.
80, Kiev, Ukraine ORD 100.00% Healthcare Ukraine LLC Reckitt Benckiser Household Products CHINA No.
34 Beijing East Road, Jingzhou City, Hubei Province, China ORD 100.00% China Company Limited Reckitt Benckiser International GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
1 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
2 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
4 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
5 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
6 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
7 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
8 LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Sarl Reckitt Benckiser Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser IP LLC RUSSIA Kozhevnicheskaya str.
14, 115114 Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Japan Limited JAPAN Shinagawa-ku, 141-0022, Japan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 153 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
4 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
4 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
6 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
6 Limited UK 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
7 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD, CLASS 100.00% A, C & D Reckitt Benckiser Kazakhstan LLC KAZAKHSTAN House 15A, Koktem 1, Bostandyksky District, Almaty, 050040, Kazakhstan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Kereskedelmi Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% No.
1 BV Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% No.
2 BV Reckitt Benckiser Lime-A-Way BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC RUSSIA Kosmodamianskaya nab.
52 1, 115054, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 2010 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
1 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
2 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
3 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
4 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Management Services IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD, CLASS 100.00% A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K Reckitt Benckiser Marc BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Morocco Sarl AU MOROCCO 322 Boulevard, Zerktouni, Residence Boissy Ler Etage Bourgogne, ORD 100.00% Casablanca, Morocco Reckitt Benckiser Netherlands Brands BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited NIGERIA 12 Montgomery Road, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria ORD 99.53% Reckitt Benckiser NV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser NV Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Oven Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pakistan Limited PAKISTAN QM Building, 9 11th Floor, Plot No BC 15, Block 7, Clifton, Karachi, ORD 98.60% Pakistan Reckitt Benckiser Peru SA PERU Avenida Repblica fide Panam No.
Lima, Per ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Pty SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Limited 154 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Reckitt Benckiser plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Porto Alto Lda PORTUGAL Estrada Malhada dos Carrascos nr12, 2135-061, Samora Correia, Portugal ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Power Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Production Poland POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Sp.
Zoo Reckitt Benckiser Produktions GmbH GERMANY Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Limited INDIA F73 & 74, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Irungattukottai, Sriperumbudur TK, ORD 100.00% Kancheepuram Distt.
602 117, Tamilnadu, India Reckitt Benckiser Service Bureau Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Services Kenya KENYA Plot Lr No 1870 I 569, 2nd Floor Apollo Centre, Ring Road Parklands, ORD 100.00% Limited Westlands, Pobox 764, 00606 Nairobi, Kenya, Africa Reckitt Benckiser Services SA fide CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, Atizapan fide ORD 100.00% Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser South Africa Pty SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Taiwan Limited TAIWAN 106 94043 Charity No.
136, Sec Taiwan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Tatabanya Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Temizlik Malzemesi TURKEY Hakki Yeten Cad.
Selenium Plaza K:7-8-9, Fulya, Besiktas, Istanbul, Turkey ORD 100.00% San.
A. S. Reckitt Benckiser Tiret BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury 2007 LimitedUK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC UK Suite 400, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, United - 100.00% UK Branch States Reckitt Benckiser USA 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC UK Suite 400, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, United 100.00% UK Branch States Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
1 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
2 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
3 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser USA General USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Partnership 100.00% Partnership Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Vanish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Venezuela SA VENEZUELA Avenida Mara con Calle San Jos, Centro Comercial Macaracuay Plaza, Nivel ORD 100.00% C3, Locales 5 y 12.
Caracas, Venezuela Reckitt Colman Chiswick OTC Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Piramal Private Limited INDIA 8th Floor, B-Wing, Marwah Centre, Krishanlal Marwah Marg, Saki Naka, ORD 100.00% Andheri East, Mumbai 400 072, India Reigate Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Relcamp Aie in liquidation SPAIN Carrer fide Fray Pau Carb, 24, 08403, Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Rivalmuster UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Consumer Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 155 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held Scholl Latin America Limited in BAHAMAS c o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% liquidation Scholl Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Seton Healthcare Group No.
2 Trustee UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Seton Healthcare No.
1 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Shanghai Manon Trading Company CHINA Room 1101, No.
1033, Zhao Jia Bang Road, Shanghai, China ORD 75.05% Simco Limited GUERNSEY Royal Chambers, St. Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AF ORD 100.00% Sonet Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Healthcare International UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Sonet Scholl Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Overseas Investments UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Sonet Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL C C Manufacturing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL C C Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% SSL MG Polymers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL MG Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL RB Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL SD International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL Australia Pty Ltd AUSTRALIA 225 Beach Road, Mordialloc VIC 3195, Australia ORD 100.00% SSL Capital Ltd JERSEY 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG ORD PREF 100.00% SSL Healthcare Shanghai Ltd CHINA Room 1605, No.
660 Shangcheng Road, Pudong District, Shanghai City, ORD 100.00% China SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, Ireland ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Malaysia Sdn Bhd in MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, ORD 100.00% Liquidation Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SSL Healthcare Manufacturing SA SPAIN Av.
Can Fatj, 151, 08191 Rub, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Norge AS NORWAY Vollsveien 9, 1366 Lysaker, Norway ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Ltd SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Sverige AB SWEDEN Waterfront, Box 190, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden ORD 100.00% SSL Holdings USA Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States SSL International plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL Manufacturing Thailand Ltd THAILAND Wellgrow Industrial Estate, 100 Moo 5, Bagna Trad Rd Km 36 Bangaamak, ORD 100.00% Bangpakong, Chachoengsao, Bangkok 24180, Thailand SSL Mexico SA fide CV MEXICO Av.
fide los Angeles No 303 Bodega 3B-1 Col. San Matin Xochinahuac, ORD 100.00% Azcapotzalco, Mexico SSL New Zealand Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% SSL Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Suffolk Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Suffolk Insurance Limited BERMUDA Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM DX, Bermuda ORD 100.00% Tai He Tai Lai Culture Communication CHINA 1-1707, No.
15 Majiapu West Road, Fengtai District, Beijing City, China ORD 100.00% Co Ltd The French's Food Company LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares 156 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of % of Name incorporation Registered Office Share Class Shares Held The French's Food Company Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% The French's Food Company Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada COMMON 100.00% The French's Food Finance Company UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited The French's Food Finance Company LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Limited Luxembourg Branch The R. T. French's Food Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The R. T. French's Food Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The RB Company Malaysia Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, ORD 100.00% in Liquidation Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tubifoam Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Chemical Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Laboratories Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% W. Woodward, Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Winchester Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Xinzhou ZhongHeng Pharmaceutical CHINA Economic Development Zone, Xinzhou City, Shanxi Province, China ORD 100.00% Co Ltd Zhong Wei Guo Yuan Beijing Biotech CHINA B-1201, Area 1, Fang Zhuang Fang Cheng Yuan, Fengtai District, Beijing, ORD 100.00% Co Ltd China Registered addresses have been included as additional information.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 157 Our Principal Operating Risks A summary of Strategic Risks and Uncertainties appears on page 40 of More generally, significant disruptions to our suppliers operations, such this report.
Following is a more expansive explanation of principal risks as disruptions resulting from natural catastrophes including as a result and uncertainties facing the Group, including risks that are not of the effects of climate change, pandemics or other outbreaks of specified in that summary.
This report, however, is not an all-inclusive diseases, acts of war or terrorism, or otherwise, may affect our ability list of risks that may affect the Group and other factors may pose a to source raw materials on a more global basis, and negatively impact material risk to the business.
The failure of a number of third party suppliers to fulfil their contractual obligations, in a timely manner, or at all, may result in The following risks have been grouped and ordered to facilitate their delays or disruptions to our business.
Replacing suppliers may require a being read in conjunction with the Group major risks, which are laid new supplier to be qualified under industry, governmental or our own out on pages 40 to 45 of the Strategic Report.
internal standards, which could require investment and may take time.
In addition, a number of our facilities are critical to our business and The objective of this section is to provide a broader and deeper major or prolonged disruption at those facilities, whether due to understanding of the nature of risk exposures faced by RB in the usual accidents, sabotage or otherwise could materially adversely affect our course of business.
Moreover, sites in which our products are manufactured are subject to supervision by regulatory agencies, on both an ongoing and Product Liability ad hoc basis.
If we are unable to obtain or produce sufficient quantities Our business is subject to product liability claims.
As a product of a particular product, at specifically approved facilities, whether due manufacturer, we are subject, from time to time, to certain legal to disruption to, or failure of, our manufacturing processes, or proceedings and claims arising out of our products, including as a result otherwise, we may fail to meet customer demand on a timely basis, of unanticipated side effects or issues that become evident only after which could undermine our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Some of our and damage to our reputation.
products present inherent dangers, including due to the presence of chemicals, which if mishandled or misused, could result in significant In addition, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory damage.
We have paid in the past, are currently paying and may be requirements could lead to interruption of production, product recalls, required in the future to pay, compensation for losses or injuries that seizures and revocation of licences to operate at any of our facilities.
are allegedly caused by our products.
Product liability claims may arise, Any interruption or disruption in our supply chain, particularly if among other things, from claims that our products are defective, significant or prolonged, could materially adversely affect our business, contain contaminants, provide inadequate warnings or instructions, or prospects, results of operations and financial condition.
cause personal injury to persons or damage to property.
Product liability claims, if resolved unfavourably, or if settled, could result in Volatility in the price of commodities, energy and transportation may injunctions and or may require us to pay substantial damages, and impact our profitability.
Certain materials for the production or related costs, including punitive damages, as well as result in the packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related commodities, are imposition of civil and criminal sanctions.
If one of our products is subject to fluctuating prices.
Increases in the costs or decreases in the found to be defective, we could be required to recall it, and or we may availability of these commodities, and increases in other costs such as be required to alter our trademarks, labels, or packaging, which could energy and transportation, could adversely affect our profitability if we result in adverse publicity, significant expenses, potential disruptions in are unable to pass on the higher costs in the form of price increases or our supply chain and loss of revenue.
Even if we were to increase the prices of our products, competitors may opt not to adjust their prices in We have in the past voluntarily implemented, and may in the future response to increasing costs and customers may refuse to pay higher face product quality concerns and voluntarily implement, product prices.
Our inability to manage this risk effectively, or at all, could have recalls, which could expose us to product liability claims.
Additionally, a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
complaints, investigations and litigation by consumers or government authorities relating to our products, our competitors products or Information Technology individual ingredients may result in judgements that affect us and or A disruption to, or failure of, our information technology systems and the industry in which we operate.
A recall of a product that is similar to infrastructure, may adversely affect our business.
We are increasingly ours could result in confusion concerning the scope of the recall and or dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure to a decline in consumer confidence about our products, which may support a wide variety of key business processes, including processing consequently impact our business and results of operations.
We may and storage of confidential and personal data, as well as for not be insured fully, or at all, in respect of such risks, and we have in international and external communications as part of our accounting, the past faced, currently face, and may in the future face disputes with logistics and distribution functions with suppliers, customers and our insurers in the event that they refuse to cover a particular claim.
Failures or disruptions to our systems or the systems of third such instances, we may be required to bear substantial losses, which parties on whom we rely, due to any number of causes, particularly if could adversely impact our capital expenditures, expenses and prolonged, or if any failure or disruption were to impact our backup or liabilities.
Any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact our disaster recovery plans, could result in a loss of key data and or affect business, financial condition and results of operations.
Supply Chain The combination of our recently initiated business reorganisation and We face risks of interruptions of our supply chain and disruptions in our continued implementation of our enterprise resource planning ERP production facilities, which could materially adversely affect our results programmes could result in sub-optimal implementations and reduced of operations.
We source our raw and packaging materials including focus due to conflicting demands for management attention.
Our bulk chemicals, plastics, pulp and metal cans and finished goods from computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to a wide variety of predominantly international chemical and packaging unauthorised access from within our organisation or by third parties, companies and co-packers.
We also outsource the manufacture of computer viruses or other malicious code and other cyber threats that some of our products to third parties.
Our suppliers generally are could have a security impact.
The occurrence of one or more of these diversified in terms of geography and supplied items, but we may face events potentially could jeopardise confidential, proprietary and other risks to continuity of supply arising from certain specialised suppliers, information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our both of raw materials and of third party manufactured items, including computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or speciality chemicals and components.
We may also incur higher prices malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses for raw materials than we may otherwise have to pay if we adopted a or reputational damage.
We may be required to expend significant more concentrated approach to obtaining supplies.
additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured 158 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.
can impact economic conditions and consumer confidence, degrade The legislative environment has also been strengthened with substantial infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and otherwise result in business financial penalties now available in relation to data protection breaches, interruption.
and an increased risk of civil and or criminal proceedings and damage to reputation in relation to such breaches.
A variety of factors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition during periods of economic uncertainty or instability, We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary social or labour unrest or political upheaval in the markets in which we information by email and other electronic means.
For example, our operations and supply chains may be and worked with customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third disrupted.
In addition, we may face increased pricing pressure or parties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, competing promotional activity for lower-priced products as and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all such third competitors seek to maintain sales volumes.
Periods of economic parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have upheaval may also expose us to greater counterparty risks, including appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the with customers, suppliers and financial institutions, who may become information.
An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, insolvent or otherwise unable to perform their obligations.
We may also confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a experience greater fluctuations in foreign currency movements, consumer, customer, supplier, counterparty or other third party could increased commodity prices and increased transportation and energy result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.
Periods of economic and political upheaval may also lead to government actions, such as imposition of martial law, trade Personnel and Management restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions, capital, price or currency We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including controls, nationalisation or expropriation of property or other key senior management.
We invest in recruiting and training personnel resources, or changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including and senior management.
Our business depends, in part, on executive those resulting in potentially adverse tax consequences.
We may also officers and senior management to provide uninterrupted leadership be unable to access credit markets, including the commercial paper and direction for our business, and qualified personnel for product market, on favourable terms, or at all, which could materially adversely R&D.
This need is all the more acute in the context of a growing affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our business, and the strategic internal reorganisations and resource cost of capital.
planning programmes to promote and manage such growth.
The market for talent is intensely competitive and may become increasingly Laws and Regulations more competitive.
We could face challenges in sourcing qualified Regulatory Landscape personnel, with the requisite training and suitable international Our business is subject to significant governmental regulation.
Our experience, particularly in countries such as China, where the business and products are heavily regulated by governments and other availability of skilled employees may be limited.
Further, variable pay is, regulatory bodies in the countries in which we operate.
Regulation is and will continue to be, the major element of our current Executive imposed in respect of, but not limited to, ingredients, manufacturing Directors and Senior Executives total compensation package.
standards, patient safety, clinical trial standards, labour standards, product safety and quality, marketing, packaging, labelling, storage, If we achieve our target levels of performance, the variable elements distribution, advertising, imports and exports, data storage and will amount to 59-77% of Executive Directors total remuneration.
If we processing, social and environmental responsibility and health and are unable to achieve our performance targets, our senior management safety.
In addition, we are required to obtain and maintain licences in would not be entitled to such variable pay, which may operate as a respect of certain of our products, which must be regularly updated in disincentive for them to continue their employment with us.
The loss of order to improve our products and take into account any variations.
If key personnel, or our inability to recruit qualified personnel to meet our we are found by regulators or courts to have been non-compliant with operational needs, may delay, or curtail the achievement of major applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil remedies strategic objectives.
such as fines, injunctions or product recalls, and or criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, Labour disruptions may affect our results of operations.
A substantial reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
portion of our workforce is unionised, and our relationship with unions, including labour disputes or work stoppages, could have an adverse We are subject to the introduction of new regulations, modification of impact on our financial results.
We are a party to collective bargaining existing regulations or changes in interpretations of existing or new agreements covering approximately one-third of our direct employees.
Changes to the laws and regulations to which we and our If, upon the expiration of such collective bargaining agreements, we are operations are subject, whether as a result of new or more stringent unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labour unions, it could requirements, or more stringent interpretations of existing result in strikes by the affected workers and thereby significantly disrupt requirements, could impact the way we conduct our business or market our operations.
Further, if we are unable to control health care and our products for example, up-scheduling of an OTC product would pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we result in it being moved from on-the-shelf to behind the counter or may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on restricted to availability only with a doctors prescription and could future results of operations.
impose significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Overall Business Environment We are one of the worlds leading manufacturers and marketers of The laws and regulations to which we are subject may not be branded health, hygiene and home products, selling a comprehensive transparent, may be difficult to interpret, and or may be enforced range of products through over 60 operating companies across the inconsistently.
In our experience, emerging markets can pose globe.
Consequently, our business and results of operations are heightened risks with respect to laws and regulations, when compared affected by changes in both global economic conditions and the with countries with more developed institutional structures.
Given our individual markets in which we operate.
Global economic trends focus on growth in developing markets, we are exposed to heightened continue to pose challenges, and in many of our markets, austerity regulatory risks.
For example, in some emerging market countries, the measures, constraints on consumer lending and slow or no economic laws and regulations to which we are subject may not always be fully growth continue to impede consumer purchasing power and adversely transparent, can be difficult to interpret and may be enforced impact consumer confidence.
Certain markets, including a number of inconsistently.
The legal systems in such countries may not be wellemerging markets in which we plan to focus our investment and established or reliable.
There may be a lack of respect for the rule of growth efforts, exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to macrolaw, a lack of enforcement of property rights, inconsistent or economic factors than other markets.
In addition, terrorist acts, civil insufficient access to remedy through legal systems, lack of judicial unrest and other similar disturbances, as well as natural catastrophes, independence and corruption, which could result in greater uncertainty Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 159 Our Principal Operating Risks continued in enforcing contracts, difficulties in obtaining legal redress, particularly subject to anti-bribery laws and regulations that prohibit us and our against the state or state-owned entities, and higher operational costs intermediaries from making improper payments or offers of payments and risks to our business.
to foreign governments, their officials and political parties or private parties, for the purpose of gaining or retaining business, including the We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be, UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as subject to investigations and potential enforcement action.
Some such amended, and similar laws worldwide.
Given our extensive international action could have in the past, or could in the future have a material operations, particularly in emerging markets, where bribery and adverse effect on our business.
We have in the past been, currently are, corruption may be more commonplace, we are exposed to significant and could in the future be subject to regulatory investigations or risks, particularly with respect to parties that are not always subject to potential enforcement action that targets an industry, a set of business our direct control such as agents and joint venture partners.
These risks practices or our specific operations.
These investigations or may be heightened for us due to our operations in the health care enforcement actions could be in respect of specific industry issues or sector, which in recent years has experienced greater compliance risks broader business conduct issues.
Moreover, these investigations or than other sectors.
We may also be held liable for successor liability enforcement actions could be triggered by allegations of general violations of such laws, committed by companies which we acquire, or corporate misconduct or by allegations of individual employee in which we invest.
misconduct in violation of internal policies and procedures.
Regulatory authorities and consumer groups may, from time to time, request or Acquisitions also expose us to risk of ongoing compliance issues until conduct reviews of the use of certain ingredients that are used in such time as we can fully integrate acquired operations into our manufacturing our products, the results of which may have a material compliance and control frameworks.
Moreover, due to the significant adverse effect on our business.
Ingredient legislation could have a amounts of money involved in global supply contracts, there is also detrimental impact on our business, undermine our reputation and potential for suppliers to attempt to bribe our employees.
Actual or goodwill and affect consumer demand for products containing such alleged violations of anti-bribery laws could result in severe ingredients.
We may voluntarily remove, or be required to remove, consequences, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal sanctions, certain ingredients from our products or any products that we may termination of contracts by our counterparties, disruptions to our acquire.
We may not be able to develop an alternative formulation, business and reputational harm, all of which could materially and successfully modify our existing products or obtain necessary regulatory adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We approvals on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely impact our also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are business and results of operations.
subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations.
Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by us could EU Integration have a negative effect on our results of operations.
The referendum to be held regarding the UKs membership of the EU heightens the potential impact of some of the principal operating risks Legal Proceedings described in this section, including the risks relating to the introduction Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside the product liability area of new regulations, modification of existing regulations or changes in could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and interpretations of existing or new regulations described above.
Outside the product liability area, we are subject to UK votes to leave the EU, it is unclear how the regulatory landscape will legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the ordinary course of change for RB, both in the UK and in the remaining EU member states.
business, and we may become involved in legal proceedings, which Additionally, the outcome of the referendum could have wider impacts include, but are not limited to, claims alleging intellectual property on the risks faced by RB.
Some of the potential effects considered by rights infringement, breach of contract, environmental laws and health RB include an increase in economic and operational uncertainty, a and safety laws, including in relation to patient safety.
From time to change in, or increase in the volatility of currency exchange, credit and time, we face consumer complaints and or civil or criminal interest rates, or that the outcome of the referendum may be a catalyst investigations in respect of our products and their alleged purposes, for further changes to the regulations and or structure of the EU that including in respect of advertising claims that we make about our will, in turn, have an impact on the business of and operating products.
Significant claims, or a substantial number of small claims, conditions faced by RB.
may be expensive to defend and may divert management time and our resources away from our operations.
Competition Any historical, current or future violations of antitrust and competition Where appropriate, we establish provisions to cover potential litigationlaws may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial related costs.
Such provisions may turn out to be insufficient, and any condition and results of operations.
We are subject to antitrust and insurance coverage we maintain may not cover our losses fully, or at all.
competition laws in the vast majority of countries in which we do We cannot predict the outcome of individual legal actions.
Failure to comply with applicable antitrust and competition settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgement or laws, rules and regulations in any jurisdiction in which we operate may determination of liability.
We may do so to avoid the cost, management result in civil and or criminal legal proceedings being brought against efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences us.
We have in the past been, currently are, and may in the future be, of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid subject to investigations and legal proceedings with respect to antitrust defences to liability.
We may also do so when the potential and competition matters.
Investigations and legal proceedings relating consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the to competition and antitrust matters often continue for several years, costs of settlement.
Substantial legal liability could materially adversely can be subject to strict non-disclosure provisions, and, if laws are affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or could deemed to have been violated, can result in substantial fines, other cause significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our sanctions or damages, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.
business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
Our strategy for growth has historically included, and continues to include, Tax Laws and Regulations acquisition activities, which are subject to antitrust and competition Changes in tax legislation and other circumstances that affect tax laws.
Such laws and regulations may impact our ability to pursue or calculations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of delay the implementation of, strategic transactions.
We conduct business operations in a number of countries, and are therefore subject to tax and intercompany pricing laws in Anti Bribery and Corruption Compliance multiple jurisdictions, including those relating to the flow of funds We operate in a number of countries in which bribery and corruption between RB and its subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate in any given pose significant risks, and we may be exposed to liabilities under financial year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in anti-bribery laws for any violations.
Any violation of applicable money succeeding financial years, and may be affected by changes in the tax laundering laws could also have a negative impact on us.
We are laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or the interpretation of 160 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements such tax laws.
Certain tax positions taken by us are based on industry for past infringement, product recalls, alterations to our intellectual practice, tax advice and drawing similarities from our facts and property, products, and or packaging, which could result in significant circumstances to those in case law.
In particular, international transfer expense and negative publicity, and may have a material adverse effect pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying on our financial condition and results of operations.
facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgement.
Sustainability and Risk Management The Board has identified and assessed the range of sustainability and Changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations including associated reputational risks and concluded that there are limited those arising as a result of the OECDs base erosion and profit shifting material risks to the Groups long and short-term value arising from project and from the EUs investigations into potential breach of State sustainability matters, other than potential risks common to similarly Aid rules in respect of tax rulings and increased enforcement actions sized businesses operating in its industry sectors and with similarly and penalties may alter the environment in which we do business, and well-known brands.
tax planning arrangements are frequently scrutinised by tax authorities worldwide.
We have in the past faced, and may in the future face, The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but audits and challenges brought by tax authorities, and we are involved not limited to: in ongoing tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
If material challenges were to be successful, our effective tax Climate Change rate may increase, we may be required to modify structures at The effects of climate change could disrupt the Groups supply chain by significant costs to us, we may also be subject to interest and penalty affecting the Groups ability to source raw materials, manufacture charges and we may incur costs in defending litigation or reaching a products and distribute products.
The Group has taken a leadership settlement.
Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect position with regard to its products total carbon footprint, by seeking our business, financial condition and results of operations.
to understand, measure and reduce the GHG emissions generated by all stages in the product lifecycle for its global product portfolio and Intellectual Property including amongst other things: the raw and packaging materials We may be unable to secure and protect our claims to intellectual provided by its suppliers: the Groups own direct manufacturing and property rights.
Our business relies on protecting our brands and our other operations: transportation of both raw materials and finished claims to intellectual property rights.
We may not be able to products: the retail sale of its products: consumers use of its products: substantiate and secure these claims and, even if registered rights are and the disposal recycling of those products and their packaging.
obtained, these may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in future.
Third parties may challenge our rights by, for example, asserting Due to the Groups industry sectors and product categories the GHG prior rights in, or ownership of, certain trademarks, trade dress rights, emissions originating from energy use at its direct operations are of designs, patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights.
If we medium-to-low impact in comparison to those of other similarly sized fail to discover any infringements of our intellectual property rights, or companies, as assessed for example in recent reports of the are otherwise unable to successfully defend and enforce our rights, our independent Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, www.
business could be materially adversely affected.
Sales of counterfeits could be detrimental to consumers and, consequently, to corporate Water Scarcity reputation.
Lookalike brands may also result in consumer confusion Water is vital for the making of raw and packaging materials, and or dilution of our brand equity.
Any failure to substantiate or manufacturing and use of many of our products.
While water is successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less plentiful in some regions, it is increasingly scarce in others.
Similar to competitive and may have a material adverse effect on our net revenue.
the effects of climate change, which are interconnected with water In addition, our intellectual property rights would be undermined if one availability, water scarcity could affect the Groups ability to source of our trademarks or brand names were to become a generic name for, materials, make and deliver relevant products for our consumers.
As or synonymous with, a general class of product or service.
Should any with carbon, the Group has developed an industry leading approach to of our trademarks become genericised, competitors would be allowed understanding the water impacts of our products lifecycle.
Our to use the genericised trademark to describe their similar products.
approach not only looks at total water used across each lifecycle stage but also takes into account water availability.
This helps us prioritise The loss of patent protection, ineffective protection, or expiration of efforts to drive water use efficiency.
our patents may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Intellectual property laws and patent offices are still Restricted Substances List developing, particularly in emerging markets.
Patent protection varies in RB has been monitoring and reviewing ingredients for the past 14 years different countries, and can be substantially weaker in emerging and has been carrying out a range of ingredients removal and markets in which we operate, when compared to the United States and restriction programmes outlined in our Restricted Substances List the European Union.
We have in the past faced, and may in the future formerly our Global Ingredients Guidelines.
Our objective is to face, significant challenges in enforcing or extending our current continually improve the environmental, safety and sustainable profile of intellectual property protections, or any protections we may obtain in our products, by systematically removing specific ingredients from future, in the same manner as in more developed regions such as the product formulae and packaging device component specifications.
Our United States and the European Union.
We have obtained patent Restricted Substances List combines regulatory, sustainability and safety protection for a variety of our intellectual property, including the requirements for generic ingredient groupings, plus specific directions composition of some of our products such as detergent and certain on the use or the prohibition of use of specific raw materials devices such as air freshener products.
Certain countries may adopt ingredients to assist formulators and other Company employees in the measures to facilitate competition within their markets from generic development and marketing of products that meet these commitments.
manufacturers, and refuse to recognise patent protection.
Additionally, expiry of our patents may increase competition and pricing pressures, Supply Chain Responsibility and Human Rights and adversely impact our sales revenue, if generic products in the same Most product, component and raw material supply chains present a or similar product class were to emerge.
We could be similarly impacted number of potential reputational risks relating to: labour standards: if competitors lose patent protection in a product class in which we health, safety and environmental standards: raw material sourcing: and compete.
the social, ethical and environmental performance of third party manufacturers and other suppliers.
The Groups Global Manufacturing We may face challenges to our intellectual property rights from third Standard for responsible production GMS mandates minimum parties, who allege that we are infringing on their rights.
If we are requirements regarding these issues, in line with international unable to successfully defend against allegations of infringement, we guidelines, for the Groups own manufacturing sites, third party may face various sanctions, including injunctions, monetary sanctions manufacturers and suppliers.
In addition, the Groups Responsible Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 161 Our Principal Operating Risks continued Sourcing of Natural Raw Materials Policy outlines minimum develop and launch a product, the less is the time for which we have requirements for natural raw materials used in RBs products and exclusivity, in which we can recoup our development costs and seek to packaging, in line with the Groups policy that these materials are profit.
We may be unable to successfully complete clinical trials and sourced responsibly and with zero deforestation.
Management obtain applicable regulatory approvals in a timely manner, or at all, and processes and controls in place include Group, area and regional may fail to gain market approval for our products.
Additionally, we may monitoring and assessment of compliance with the GMS, natural raw encounter infringement claims by competitors, which may preclude or material and other requirements.
delay commercialisation of our products.
Any delays could result in us not being the first to market, and could undermine our competitive Health & Safety advantage.
If any of the products we are currently developing, or may Accidents caused through a failure of the Groups safety management develop in future, fail to become market-ready or to achieve systems could potentially lead to loss of life for one or more of the commercial success at expected levels, or at all, we may incur Groups employees.
The Group maintains an external certification to substantial losses.
If we fail to develop or upgrade our equipment, OHSAS 18001 for the Groups management of health and safety issues technology and manufacturing processes at least in line with our and a programme covering manufacturing sites, warehouses, competitors, we may be unable to compete effectively and lose market distribution centres and laboratories.
Sources of Group Revenue and Growth Reputation Demand Substantial harm to our reputation, or the reputation of one or more of Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a significant portion of our our brands, may materially adversely affect our business.
The majority revenue, and any material adverse change to demand for existing of our brands have worldwide recognition.
Maintaining our established Powerbrands or any future products we may develop, could have a reputation and trust with key stakeholders, including consumers, material adverse effect on our business.
Our results of operations customers and trading partners is critical to our business.
Various depend to a significant extent on our ability to launch and sell factors may adversely impact our reputation, including product quality products, in particular our Powerbrands, that appeal to, and are inconsistencies or contamination.
We have in the past faced qualityaccepted by consumers.
Consumer preferences, tastes and habits are related issues, which resulted in trade and consumer recalls and such constantly evolving.
Various factors, some of which are beyond our recalls may have a material adverse impact on our reputation.
Raw control, may have an adverse impact on demand for our Powerbrands.
materials that we source for production may become contaminated For example, certain products within our health and hygiene categories through the supply chain, and other product defects may occur due to have in the past exhibited, and may in the future exhibit, seasonal human error or equipment failure, among other things.
Launch of new products or variants of our existing risks may also arise with respect to the methods and practices of third Powerbrands may not neutralise the impact of weak performance of parties that are part of our supply chain, including labour standards, one of our Powerbrands.
Similarly, our failure to differentiate our health, safety and environmental standards, raw material sourcing, and existing Powerbrands or future products from competitors, whether ethical standards in the countries in which we operate.
We may also be through quality, innovation, marketing or otherwise, may adversely the victim of product tampering.
impact consumer demand for our products.
If consumer patterns change within the major consumer clusters that we have identified, or Any perceived or actual concerns related to our products, our supply fail to react as anticipated, we may have to reassess our growth plans, chain, or the industry more generally, such as the long-term effects of and alter our sales strategy.
Consumers may purchase less or switch to household chemicals and OTC over-the-counter drug ingredients on purchasing generic products, private label products and economy human health and the environment, may be widely disseminated brands, as opposed to branded products, which could impact our sales, online, on consumer blogs or other social media sites, or via print and or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower broadcast media.
Similarly, any litigation that we have faced or may margin product offerings.
If we are unable to respond to changes in face may subject us to increasing negative attention in the press.
In consumer demand in a timely or adequate manner, or at all, and or addition, companies with global operations recently have come under accurately predict or anticipate factors that may impact demand, and if criticism for corporate tax planning, and criticism of our structures or we are unable to differentiate our brands from competitors, our those of our peers could also generate negative publicity.
Any negative business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially publicity could significantly undermine our reputation, and current and adversely affected.
methods of dissemination of information including the ability of reports to go viral online mean that potential threats to reputation Product Development can occur in a very short period of time and reach a far broader Our business, financial condition, and results of operations substantially audience than historically was the case, making it far more difficult to depend on our ability to improve our existing products, and successfully address.
Moreover, third parties have sold or may sell products that are develop and launch new products and technologies.
Our ability to counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our brands, or inferior maintain and grow our market share depends to a large extent on our lookalike brands that resemble ours.
Consumers may confuse our ability to successfully and cost-effectively introduce and market new products with such brands.
products whether variants of existing, or newly developed, products, and to develop equipment, technology and manufacturing processes Competition and Customers for our products.
If we are unable to successfully develop, launch and We operate in intensely competitive industries.
We face vigorous market new products that obtain consumer acceptance, in a timely competition worldwide.
We compete with well-established local, manner, or at all, we may be unable to compete and maintain or grow regional, national and international companies that target the same our market share.
Any new product or line extension may not generate consumer base as we do, some of whom may have more significant sufficient consumer interest and sales levels to become a profitable resources with which to establish and promote their products.
We also product or to cover the costs of its development or promotion.
In face competition from private label products, and generic nonaddition, if we decide to pursue growth opportunities in new branded products, which typically are sold at lower prices, by major categories and new category segments or in regions in which we have retail companies, some of whom may be our customers.
Competition no prior experience or limited experience, we may become exposed to from these sources has grown in recent years.
unexpected or greater risks and potential losses.
Consolidation of key trade customers in the sectors in which we Product innovation and development generally involve considerable operate may limit opportunities for growth, and increase competitive costs, and may demand a lengthy process.
For example, research and pressures further.
Our products generally compete on the basis of development required to develop health products could take a product quality and performance, promotional activities, brand significant period of time, from discovery to commercial product recognition, price, timely development and launch, or other benefits to launch, and given the limited duration of patents, the longer we take to consumers.
If we are unable to offer products that consumers choose 162 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements over our competitors products, our business and results of operations regulatory risks.
In addition, acquisitions in markets in which we have may be materially adversely affected.
In addition, our products compete limited or no prior experience may pose a greater risk.
Moreover, with other products for shelf space in retail stores and for marketing integration of acquired businesses, as well as any attendant internal focus, such as via in-store promotional activities of our brands.
Our reorganisation, can also require significant management attention, competitive position, and consequently sales of our products, may be which may place strain on management resources and processes, and harmed to the extent that we are unable to successfully maintain sound otherwise disrupt operations.
Acquisitions can also place a strain on working relationships with our trade customers, who determine access Group-wide internal control systems.
to shelf space and product placement on shelf, set retail prices and control in-store promotional activities of our brands, and can establish If we are unable to effectively manage risks associated with pricing differentials between similar products on shelf.
acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
In addition, we may have entered As the retail sector becomes more concentrated, retailers could impose into or choose to enter into joint ventures, business alliances or downward pressure on prices and require commercial incentives before collaboration agreements, which could involve the same or similar risks agreeing to offer our products for sale to consumers.
Further, to the and uncertainties as are involved in acquisitions.
Joint ventures, for extent trade customers increase usage of their own distribution example, generally involve a lesser degree of control over business networks and private label brands, the competitive advantage we operations, which have in the past presented, and may in the future derive from our brand equity could be impaired.
In addition, new sales present, greater financial, legal, operational and or compliance risks.
channels have emerged, and continue to emerge, such as sales made through the Internet via online shopping, which may affect customer We have also disposed of some of our businesses and may continue to and consumer preferences, and competitive dynamics.
If we are unable do so even as we focus on organic growth.
There are a number of risks to effectively compete in these new channels, this could adversely associated with such divestments.
These include adverse market impact our results and our prospects.
Moreover, increased competition reaction to such changes or the timing or terms on which such changes means that we need to spend more on promotion of our products.
are made, commercial objectives not being achieved as expected, unforeseen liabilities arising from such changes to the portfolio, sales Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and operational performance not meeting our expectations, future sales and prospects, consequently adversely impacting our anticipated cost savings being delayed or not being achieved, inability results of operations.
Competition also extends to administrative and to retain key staff and transaction-related costs being more than legal challenges of product claims and advertising.
We may also remain liable for issues relating to the challenges and defending our products and intellectual property rights disposed businesses, whether known or unknown at the time of could result in significant expenses and may divert resources away from disposal.
product and technological innovation, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Currency Exchange The Group prepares its Financial Statements in Sterling but conducts Acquisitions and Divestitures business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign While we are principally focused on organic growth, we have grown, exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have and may continue to grow, in part, through acquisitions, joint ventures on the translation of the results and the underlying net assets of its and business alliances, which present a range of risks and uncertainties.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and Historically we have funded acquisitions through short-term operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some borrowings, which we repaid through cash flow from our operations.
protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits We expect that future acquisitions could be funded through either after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging additional borrowings or through equity, or a combination of the two.
methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are located.
For transactions, it is the Groups policy to monitor and, only Our competitors may choose to target the same acquisition candidates, where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency transaction exposures.
and consolidation in the industry may limit available opportunities for These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts acquisitions.
We may also be restricted by applicable antitrust laws, and payments for goods and services, and from the remittance of foreign investment laws, or other laws and regulations, from pursuing foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into acquisitions.
We may bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses forward foreign exchange contracts with Group Treasury to manage associated with a failed acquisition.
these exposures, where practical and allowed by local regulations.
Group Treasury manages the Group exposures, and hedges the net We may fail to achieve projected financial results of acquisitions, position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency including expected cost and revenue synergies.
In making acquisitions, exchange contracts.
we make various assessments, including expected growth rates which we may fail to achieve.
To the extent that economic benefits associated In FY 2015, 85% of our net revenue was derived from markets outside with our acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to the United Kingdom.
The Sterling value of our revenues, profits and record impairment charges to goodwill or other assets, which could cash flows from non-UK markets may be reduced or our supply costs, affect our financial condition.
Through our acquisitions, we may also as measured in Sterling in those markets, may increase.
Additionally, a assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory number of our competitors are based in countries whose currencies and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities fluctuate against Sterling, and they may benefit from having their costs or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies.
While we seek incurred in weaker currencies relative to Sterling.
We prepare our to mitigate these risks in most of our transactions through, among Financial Statements in Sterling, and our financial results are affected by other things, due diligence processes and indemnification provisions, fluctuations between the relative value of Sterling and other functional we cannot be certain that the due diligence processes we conduct are currencies, particularly the US dollar and Euro.
For example, in FY 2015, adequate particularly with respect to acquisitions of privately held we incurred a net exchange loss on foreign currency translation, net of companies and in countries where legislation and transparency make tax, of 173 million in our statement of comprehensive income.
Further, the process more difficult or that the indemnification provisions and currency translations may make it more difficult for investors to other risk mitigation measures we put in place will be sufficient.
understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-to-period comparative basis.
We currently hedge We could also face significant risks related to integration of the some of our currency exposures using financial instruments, and we acquired businesses into the RB Group, particularly if we attempt to seek to align our interest costs and operating profits of our major simultaneously integrate multiple businesses.
Acquisitions in emerging currencies where possible, which may not be effective.
Hedging markets may impose particular risks related to integration across transactions do not eliminate the exchange rate risk entirely, and may different corporate cultures, systems, languages and other market and not be fully, or at all, effective.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 163 Our Principal Operating Risks continued We are subject to the risk that countries in which we operate may procure additional funding for future acquisitions, including both impose or increase exchange controls or devalue their currency.
We bolt-on acquisitions as well as acquisitions that may be more material in operate in a number of countries, particularly emerging markets, which size, we increased the level of medium-term funding in 2013 with the impose exchange controls, including, but not limited to: Argentina, placement of a US$1 billion bond in the US debt market.
Brazil, China, India, Russia, Egypt, Nigeria, South Africa and Venezuela.
Such controls may restrict or make it impossible to convert local The Groups objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the currency into other currencies, restrict our ability to repatriate earnings Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide from a country for example, 65 million of our cash and cash returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to equivalents as at 31 December 2015 were restricted for use by us, maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
borrow on the international markets to fund operations in that country In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns or may limit our ability to import raw materials or finished products, any for Shareholders, in 2015 the Company has provided returns to or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity Shareholders in the form of dividends, the current details of which are and results of operations.
In addition, emerging markets are prone to included in the Financial Review for the year on page 37, and share buy currency devaluations, such as, for example, the devaluation by the backs.
The Group monitors net debt total borrowings less cash and Russian Rouble in 2014, which tend to make our products more cash equivalents, short-term available for sale financial assets and expensive in local currency terms.
financing derivative financial instruments and at the year end the Group had net debt of 1,620 million 2014: 1,543 million.
The Group Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods such maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Details of numerical as those that are oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw disclosures relating to the Groups financial risk management are materials.
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk.
included in Note 14 to the Financial Statements on pages 119 to 123. Credit and Interest Rates General Financial Risks of a Global Company The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets We are subject to risks relating to estimates and assumptions that we and liabilities.
The Group monitors its interest expense rate exposure are required to make, and that affect the reported amounts in our on a regular basis.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure on its Financial Statements.
The preparation of our Financial Statements gross financial assets by using fixed rate term deposits.
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Financial and revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups estimates are based on managements best knowledge at the time, counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The institutions with a BBB rating or above.
The Group seeks to use higher Groups significant accounting estimates and judgements are shown rated counterparties to manage risk, and operationally, only uses BBB on page 106. rated counterparties by exception.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the The Groups multinational operations have exposed, currently expose counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board.
and may continue to expose it to a variety of financial risks that include Despite these efforts, the Group cannot ensure that counterparties the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates foreign will not default or fail and, in particular, the Groups evaluation of exchange risk, market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
counterparties may prove to be inadequate under exceptional Although the Group has in place a risk management programme that circumstances or macroeconomic conditions.
uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international performance of the Group, there can be no certainty that these banks.
All of these facilities have similar or equivalent terms and initiatives will prove successful under all circumstances.
conditions, and have a financial covenant, facilities and central cash and investments, which are considered sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash requirements, as at the date of this report.
If the Group were to lose access to these credit facilities, whether due to circumstances within or beyond the Groups control, it would have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the overseas businesses are generally remitted to Group Treasury.
The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.
Our business may be adversely affected by our funding requirements.
Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to generate cash from operations and the level of borrowings and related levels of headroom, the level of acquisition, the level of share repurchases and dividends, dispositions, target ratings for our debt and options available to us in the equity and debt markets.
We obtain our funding primarily from the commercial paper market and have benefitted from the low interest rate environment.
We maintain committed back-up credit facilities, which have remained undrawn since FY 2009.
At 31 December 2015, we had 3,500 million in undrawn commitments.
If we are not able to access the commercial paper market to the extent that we require, or at all, we may need to drawdown amounts under our committed bilateral credit facilities, which accrue interest at floating rates based on changes in certain published rates such as LIBOR.
Increases in such rates could result in significantly higher interest expense for us, which would negatively affect our results of operations.
As part of our strategy to maintain financial flexibility, as well as to 164 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Management of Sustainability Sustainability Programme Board Oversight The CEO has specific responsibility for sustainability.
As part of The Board regularly considers and takes account of the significance of established management processes, which include performance sustainability matters, their potential risks to the business of the Group management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives, senior and the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an management reports directly to the CEO on sustainability matters on appropriate response.
On the Executive Committee EC, the EVP Category Development has operational accountability for the implementation of The Board undertakes a formal review of sustainability matters at least sustainability bar charitable giving, in partnership with the EVP Supply, annually.
This includes providing oversight to ensure that the Group has and supported by the rest of the EC within their respective areas and in place effective policies, systems and procedures for managing functions.
In the category development organisation, the Category sustainability matters and mitigating significant sustainability risks.
Group Director Innovation & Sustainability manages the sustainability Additionally, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the arrangements programme on a day-to-day basis.
The R&D function includes the for, and effectiveness of, risk management including the full range of Global Regulatory Affairs GRA group, which is responsible for risks facing the Group such as risks relating to sustainability matters, ensuring that our products meet regulatory requirements and are safe reputational risks and risks relating to employees.
Our SVP Human Resources HR and the global HR function manage the Groups human resources, employee The Board believes that it receives adequate information and training remuneration and benefits, employment practices, organisational on sustainability matters and their potential risks and opportunities to development, training and elements of health and safety e. g. stress the business of the Group.
The Board has identified and assessed the management.
range of sustainability and associated reputational risks and concluded that there are limited material risks to the Groups long and short-term The Group has a full set of policies, Key Performance Indicators, value arising from sustainability matters, other than potential risks targets, programmes and control arrangements, building on its central common to similarly sized businesses operating in its industry sectors 1 Code of Conduct, that address the full range of sustainability matters and with similarly well-known brands.
For more information, please see and reputational risks.
The sustainability and corporate responsibility page 161. section on the Groups website www.
Sustainability matters include environmental matters including the impact of the annual sustainability reports available at www.
com provide further Groups business on the environment, its employees, and social and community issues.
information, including the extent to which it complies with those policies, systems and procedures and progress towards targets KPIs.
The Group reports in line with the Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.
Key areas of sustainability internal control and performance, including sustainability disclosures, are independently reviewed and verified by both internal and external organisations, including Internal Audit, and their findings regularly reported to senior management, the CEO, the Audit Committee and the Board.
In addition, selected data in the annual Sustainability Report are assured by external auditors.
The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but not limited to: Climate change Water scarcity Product stewardship Supply chain responsibility and human rights Health & Safety For information on the Boards assessment of the range of sustainability and associated reputation risk, see page 161.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 165 Shareholder Information Electronic Communications Computershare Investor Services PLC The Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2008 AGM enabling the The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY Companys website to be used as the primary means of communication with them.
Shareholders who have positively elected, or are deemed to Reckitt Benckiser Shareholder helpline: Tel.
44 0 370 703 0118 have consented, to receive electronic communications in accordance Website: www.
com uk with the Companies Act 2006 will receive written notification whenever Shareholder documents are available to view on the American Depositary Receipts Companys website.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc American Depositary Receipts ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter market OTC under the symbol RBGLY.
Shareholders who have received a notice of availability of a document Five ADRs represent one ordinary share.
J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. on the Companys website are entitled to request a hard copy of any is the Depositary.
such document at any time free of charge from the Companys Registrar.
Shareholders can also revoke their consent to receive If you should have any queries, please contact: electronic communications at any time by contacting the Registrar.
The Companys 2015 Annual Report and Notice of the 2016 AGM are PO Box 64504, St. Paul, MN 55164-0854, US available to view at www.
com Investor Relations section of the website contains up-to-date Telephone number for general queries: Tel.
1 800 990 1135 information for Shareholders including: Telephone number from outside the US: Tel.
1 651 453 2128 Detailed share price information: Key Dates Financial results: Announcement of Quarter 1 interim Dividend payment dates and amounts: management statement 22 April 2016 Annual General Meeting 5 May 2016 Access to Shareholder documents including the Annual Report: and Record date for 2015 final dividend 15 April 2016 Share capital information.
Payment of 2015 final ordinary dividend 26 May 2016 Announcement of 2016 interim results 29 July 2016 Annual General Meeting 1 Record date for 2016 interim dividend 19 August 2016 To be held on Thursday, 5 May 2016 at 11.15 am at No.
11 Cavendish 1 Payment of interim ordinary dividend 29 September 2016 Square, London W1G 0AN.
Announcement of Quarter 3 interim management statement 19 October 2016 Every Shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
The Notice convening the meeting is contained in a separate document for 1 Provisional dates.
Shareholders who have registered for electronic communication can: Analysis of Shareholders as at 31 December 2015 Receive an email alert when Shareholder documents are available: Distribution of shares by type of Shareholder No.
of holdings Shares View the Annual Report and Notice of AGM on the day they are Nominees and Institutional Investors 9,635 722,270,851 published: Individuals 13,276 14,264,328 Cast their AGM vote electronically: and Total 22,911 736,535,179 Manage their shareholding quickly and securely online.
of holdings Shares Dividends for the Year ended 31 December 2015 1 500 14,306 2,846,501 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 88.7p per share, 501 1,000 3,631 2,656,095 for the year ended 31 December 2015.
10,001 50,000 591 14,004,149 50,001 100,000 182 12,971,763 Company Secretary 100,001 1,000,000 365 118,723,324 Christine Logan 1,000,001 and above 104 575,800,849 Registered office Total 22,911 736,535,179 103105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Boiler Room Scams Telephone: 01753 217800 Shareholders who are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted Facsimile: 01753 217899 shares, a premium price for shares, or free company or research reports, should take these steps before handing over any money: Registered and domiciled in England and Wales No.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Check the Financial Services Register at https: register.
uk Company status to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on Tel.
0800 111 6768, if there are Auditor no contact details on the Register or if they are out of date.
Search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with at www.
If you are approached by fraudsters please contact the FCA using Slaughter and May their helpline, or share fraud reporting form at www.
Consider getting independent financial advice.
Registrar and Transfer Office The Companys Registrar, Computershare, is responsible for maintaining Using an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments and updating the Shareholder register and making dividend payments.
will prohibit access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial If you have any queries relating to your shareholding please write to, Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
or telephone, the Companys Registrar at the following address: 166 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Cautionary note concerning forward looking statements This Annual Report and Financial Statements contains statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of RB the Group and certain of the plans and objectives of the Group that are forward-looking statements.
Words such as intends, targets, or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or results, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including targets for net revenue, operating margin and cost efficiency, are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including many factors outside the Groups control.
Among other risks and uncertainties, the material or principal factors which could cause actual results to differ materially are: the general economic, business, political and social conditions in the key markets in which the Group operates: the ability of the Group to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including changes thereto: the reliability of the Groups technological infrastructure or that of third parties on which the Group relies: interruptions in the Groups supply chain and disruptions to its production facilities: the reputation of the Groups global brands: and the recruitment and retention of key management.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this announcement.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, RB expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements on the price at which shares or other securities in Reckitt Benckiser Group plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 167 Notes 168 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The following are trademarks of the Reckitt Benckiser group of companies or used under licence: Airborne, Air Wick, Amop, Aqua Mist, Bang, betterbusiness, Bonjela, Calgon, Cherry Blossom, Clearasil, d-Con, Dermicool, Dermodex, Dettol, Digestive Advantage, Durex, Easywax, Filter & Fresh, Finish, Flip & Fresh, Franks Red Hot, Frenchs, Freshmatic, Gaviscon, Graneodin, Harpic, Harpic Hygienic, Healthier Lives.
Luftal, Lysol, Manyanshuning, MegaRed, Micostatin, Move Free, Mortein, Mucinex, Naldecon, No-Touch, Nugget, Nurofen, Our Home Our Planet, Performax Intense, Picot, Power Plus, Quantum, Quantumatic, Resolve, Sagrotan, Schiff, Schiff Vitamins, Scholl, Spray n Wash, Strepsils, Suboxone, Subutex, Tempra, Tigers Milk, Vanish, Vanish Gold, Veet, Veja, Velvet Express Pedi, Woolite as well as Reckitt Benckiser and the RB kite logos.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Turner House, 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH, UK
