How we can deliver Our operating model in action Create Our operating model is to use FMCG experience to develop, acquire, produce, Continuous and successful innovation is the key for staying ahead in our markets.
Consumer insights are the starting point for all our distribute and promote innovations.
Through our focus groups and digital channels, we gain a deep understanding of consumers needs, including needs that consumer products in growing consumers are not yet aware of.
Health, Hygiene and Home Every day, our people generate new ideas for meeting those needs.
Our model has three We also increasingly partner with third parties who bring us ideas for great products.
To maximise our return on investment, we focus on key elements, which enable under-served needs, where we can create differentiated products us to create value for all our which result in greater consumer loyalty, faster growth and better margins.
We also concentrate our investment on ideas with blockbuster stakeholders, but primarily potential, rather than smaller enhancements to existing products.
Speed is critical, so we focus on advances that come to life in months, for our consumers, our people not years.
We then leverage our R&D capabilities to develop clinically proven and innovative solutions, through R&D hubs in the UK, India and the US which specialise in particular product categories.
The process contains gates, ensuring we regularly test the idea as development proceeds.
Our spread by geography and product category reduces the risk of any one innovation failing to deliver.
Sustainability considerations are built into our innovation process, for example as we look to minimise the carbon emissions and water used to make our products.
In action Create Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi We identified a widespread under-served need for quick and effective removal of hard skin.
Consumers had been using pumice stones and manual files for hundreds of years, with few improvements.
We test-marketed an electronic foot file and validated its potential, then improved both the design and performance to enable a rapid worldwide launch in 2014.
In 2015, we introduced additional versions to create a very strong second wave of growth.
These included further device designs to target specific consumer types, and different coarseness levels for the roller-heads, to achieve optimum performance for different skin types.
32 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Scale Activate Centralised procurement leverages our global purchasing power, while Our brands include many category leaders.
They drive footfall for ensuring we source sustainably and responsibly.
We then manufacture our retail customers, which encourages them to stock our products.
our products in 46 factories worldwide, which continually strive to We develop strong relationships with major retailers, so we can work improve efficiency and reduce their environmental impact.
All our together to promote our products and drive growth and penetration Powerbrands are manufactured in-house, while carefully selected third of the product category.
parties manufacture some other brands on our behalf.
To support our efforts, we have over 60 commercial operations Quality is essential, so we have a dedicated assurance team.
The worldwide, with local sales, marketing and doctor medical detailing stringent quality requirements in healthcare mean that we manage teams.
Our global sales operation manages our global retailer our consumer health factories globally, to ensure we consistently meet relationships and our relationships with strategic partners such as our standards.
We use distributors to reach smaller retailers and build relationships with these distributors that focus on executional excellence.
To make our products physically available, we have 124 logistics centres worldwide, holding finished products for quick and efficient Ultimately, our business depends on consumer demand for our distribution.
Our supply services organisation is customer facing and products.
We invest heavily behind our brands, through targeted aims to achieve best-in-class delivery and customer satisfaction.
television and print advertising, social and other digital media, and consumer and medical education.
Our virtuous earnings model see To scale our innovation more quickly, we identify a lead market for our pages 22 to 23 enables us to fund this investment.
This in turn enables Powerbrands and use our Power of 1 teams to develop a global launch us to grow revenues while increasing our margins, driving returns package that we can then take everywhere, minimising reworking for Shareholders.
Our strong Balance Sheet and sector-leading cash conversion also allow us to acquire brands that add value and support our vision.
We quickly integrate acquired brands, so they benefit from our global value creation model.
In action In action Scale Activate Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi We used the lessons from our Our rapid roll-outs and the resulting success enabled us to test-marketing to optimise our sales define how to achieve executional excellence.
By continually and marketing plans.
Combined sharing and applying this knowledge, we were able to drive with agile centralised production, further success in market.
Strong retailer profitability drove this enabled us to launch across 50 increased collaboration, leading to greater and more visible markets in 2014 a record for RB.
physical availability and creating a virtuous cycle.
In 2015, we further tightened the process and focus, allowing us to With these well co-ordinated  activities, introduce the additional versions sales of Velvet Smooth Express Pedi doubled in 2015, building across these same markets in under on an already strong 2014 performance.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 33
