Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below, Report on the financial statements Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Our opinion accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In our opinion Redrow plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and each Financial Year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with the Strategic Report contained on pages 3 to 55 includes a fair review the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the of the development and performance of the business and the position by the European Union: European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true uncertainties that it faces.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial financial statements, the Directors are required to: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Steve Morgan, Chairman select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: John Tutte, Group Chief Executive What we have audited Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The financial statements comprise: Debbie Hewitt, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and prudent: Nick Hewson, Non-Executive Director the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2015: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have Liz Peace, Non-Executive Director been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the Group income statement and the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Sir Michael Lyons, Non-Executive Director explained in the financial statements: and the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
the accounting policies: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Graham Cope that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Company Secretary disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 7 September 2015 cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by Redrow plc statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Redrow House safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for St. Davids Park taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Flintshire other irregularities.
CH5 3RX Our audit approach Overview The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Materiality Overall group materiality: 10 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group.
Audit scope The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary Net realisable value of inventories.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Valuation of pension scheme deficit.
Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on page 90.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
88 89 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
