Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CO N T I N U ED GLOSSARY There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new NPPF Explanatory Notes to Annual General Meeting Resolutions: shares other than in connection with employee share and incentive The National Policy Planning Framework Resolutions 1 to 12 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
The Directors consider it desirable to have the maximum that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the HBF flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 13 and 14 Home Builders Federation market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those business opportunities as they arise.
resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must NHBC be in favour of the resolution.
National House-Building Council Resolution 13 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Resolution 2 Dividend The Directors may only allot shares and other equity securities, or sell How Key Performance Indicator Measures are Calculated: Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee 13 November 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of share scheme to persons who are not already Shareholders in the Land bank years business on 25 September 2015.
Company if authorised to do so by the Shareholders in a general No.
of plots in owned land bank at 30 June divided by meeting.
The purpose of paragraph i of Resolution 13 is to authorize no.
of legal completions in financial year Resolutions 39 Re-appointment and appointment of Directors the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors retire Sales outlets paragraph i of Resolution 12, or sell treasury shares, for cash in and offer themselves for re-election.
Following changes to the Listing No.
of sales outlets open at 30 June connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue, or ii otherwise up Rules which took effect in May 2014, Resolutions 6, 7, 8 and 9 must be to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,849,000, in each case without Private reservation rate approved both by a simple majority of all Shareholders, and by a simple first offering them to existing members.
The sum in ii represents No.
of private reservations per week in financial majority of the independent Shareholders that is all Shareholders other approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital year divided by average no.
of sales outlets than Steve Morgan and his concert parties.
For full biographies of all excluding treasury shares as at 7 September 2015.
The resolution also Directors and further details in relation to their re-election, please see enables the Directors to modify the strict requirements for a rights issue Revenue page 61 and page 63. in circumstances where they consider it necessary or expedient.
Revenue per consolidated income statement Resolution 10 Re-appointment of Auditors In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds them Number of trainees The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general in treasury, this resolution would give the Directors power to sell these No.
of trainees at 30 June meeting at which the accounts are presented to Shareholders.
shares for cash to persons other than existing Shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash to these persons.
Five star customer satisfaction rating  LLP were appointed at last years Annual Independent HBF customer satisfaction rating General Meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
It is The Board considers the authority in Resolution 12 to be appropriate in normal practice for a Companys Directors to be authorised to agree order to allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or Accident incident rate by site the Auditors fees.
If this resolution is passed, the Audit Committee to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply No.
of notifiable accidents in financial year divided by will approve the fees for recommendation to the Board.
with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
of sites Resolution 11 Directors remuneration The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion Return on capital employed ROCE This resolution deals with the remuneration of the directors and of the next Annual General Meeting or 31 December 2016.
Operating profit before exceptional items adjusted for joint seeks approval of the remuneration paid to the directors during the ventures as a percentage of opening and closing capital employed year under review respectively.
Resolution 14 Calling of a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting Return on equity ROE The Company is required to ask shareholders to approve the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 the notice period required for general Profit before tax before exceptional items adjusted for joint Remuneration Report.
This is set out on pages 70 to 83 of the meetings of the Company is 21 days unless Shareholders approve a ventures as a percentage of opening and closing net assets Annual Report.
Resolution 11 is an advisory vote.
shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
Earnings per share EPS Annual General Meetings of the Company will continue to be held on at Resolution 12 Authority to allot shares Profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders excluding least 21 clear days notice.
Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to Directors exceptional items and deferred tax rate changes divided by in previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, Resolution 12 would Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the weighted average no.
of ordinary shares in issue during renew this authority by authorising the Directors to allot shares up to the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a the financial year an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 which is equivalent to similar resolution will be prepared.
approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, as at 7 September 2015 and a Documents Available for your Inspection further 12,326,665 only in respect of a rights issue which is equivalent Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection during to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week public holiday Company, exclusive of treasury shares as at 7 September 2015.
This is excepted at the Companys registered office and at the office of in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The authority will expire Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company document up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 31 December 2016. and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45am until the close of the meeting: The Company does not, as of 7 September 2015 hold any shares in treasury.
the Articles of Association and Memorandum of the Company: and the service agreements and letters of appointment of the Directors.
The Directors will exercise the authority to allot only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
128 129 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
