42 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Corporate responsibility 1.
Our unique contributions Corporate responsibility CR We make a positive impact on society through our unique ensures good management of knowledge, resources and skills, including universal sustainableaccess to information, the advance of science risks and opportunities, helps us andhealth, protection of society, promotion of the rule of law andjustice, and fostering communities.
attract and retain the best people Scientific, Technical & Medical and strengthens our corporate Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information, plays an important role in advancing human reputation.
It means performing welfare and economic progress through its science and health information, which spurs innovation and enables critical decision to the highest commercial and making.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
Among them is ethical standards and channelling Research4Life, a partnership with UN agencies and approximately 200 publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge scientific our knowledge and strengths, as information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner and the leading contributor, Elsevier global leaders in our industries, provides over a quarter of the material available in Research4Life, encompassing approximately 2,500 Elsevier journals and 18,900 to make a difference to society.
In 2015, there were more than 5m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect, an increase of 28% from 2014.
The Consistent engagement with stakeholders, including Elsevier Foundation continued to support scientific publishing in shareholders, employees, governments and communities where developing countries through Publishers without Borders, which we operate, helps us identify our material corporate responsibility allows Elsevier content specialists to spend a month working with issues.
In addition, in 2015, we retained Carnstone to conduct researchers in Tanzania to increase their capabilities.
During anassessment by stakeholders of our key CR issues to ensure 2015, four more colleagues took part in this initiative.
In the year, continued alignment with our non-financial objectives.
The Elsevier produced Sustainability Science in a Global Landscape Boards of Directors, senior management and the Corporate tocoincide with the launch of the UN Sustainable Development Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding objectives and Goals SDGs during the 70th UN General Assembly in September.
It provides critical insights into global research underpinning theSDGs, including research output, citation impact, research collaboration and interdisciplinary research, catalysing a more We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business informed dialogue between academics, civil society and policy and on good management of the material areas that affect makers on the best ways forward.
A key finding is that while all companies: sustainability science is expanding at an annual growth rate of 1.
Our unique contributions nearly 8% and attracts 30% more citations than other research fields on average, it comprises only 3% of global research output.
Governance It also identified opportunities for northsouth collaboration as 3.
People 76% of research is produced by high-income countries, while only 2% comes from low-income countries.
Community Risk & Business Analytics tools and resources help protect 6.
Its employees created the Automated Delivery of Alerts onMissing Children ADAM programme, which assists in the safe 7.
Environment recovery of missing children.
Since launching in 2000, 155 children have been located, including 13 in 2015.
In the year, LexisNexis Risk Solutions was selected as the Washington DC Police Foundation Public Safety Business Partner of the Year for helping to keep the capital region safe through its data analytics, data fusion and linking capabilities, which enhance crime investigation and prevention.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions saved five US states anestimated $500m since June 2014 through fraud prevention services using its contributory database solutions to stop participation in more than one states Supplemental Nutrition Assistance food stamps programmes.
Its Tax Refund Investigative Solution has averted approximately $500m in fraudulant tax refunds in 10 US states since its 2012 inception.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information B Ru Es Lin X G esrso rev up ieC w or pC or or ap te or ra etsep r on es sp ib on ilis ty ibility 43 43 A quick response time and a photo ADAM are the most critical elements in the search for missing children.
Over thelast 15 years, LexisNexis Risk Programme: Solutions has addressed this need through the ADAM programme, bringing home which stands for Automated Delivery of Alerts on Missing Children and is named in memory of six-year-old missing children Adam Walsh, who was kidnapped and murdered in 1981.
ADAM alerts circulate missing child posters in minutes more than 1.6m in 2015 to police, news media, schools, The support NCMEC has received from LexisNexis businesses, medical centres and other recipients within aspecific geographic search area.
Since launching in over the last 15 years has been invaluable: thanks 2000, 155 children have been located, including 13 in 2015. to their expertise and technology, there have been ADAM is designated for use by the National Center for nearly 750 success stories, of which 155 children Missing & Exploited Children NCMEC in the US.
Some were recovered as a direct result of the ADAM 120,000 missing child posters are distributed each month, programme alone.
supporting searches across the US.
More than 2.6m people, including police departments, news media, John F. Clark hospitals, schools, social services and private companies, President and CEO, National Center for participate in the programme.
The colleagues who Missing & Exploited Children support ADAM exemplify the RELX Group values of innovation, boundarylessness and valuing people.
155 children safely located since 2000 Using our technology, missing child posters are distributed quickly 44 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 During 2015, Risk & Business Analytics Community Care everyday operations and relationships.
It encourages businesses launched a knowledge and practice hub on Inform Children to help to go beyond compliance with legal minimum requirements.
social workers tackle child neglect through detailed research.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional, along with the Atlantic Council, Itprovides in-depth information on key topics with research, provided the seeds of the initiative, which was introduced in adviceand interactive practice tools, addressing the need for September 2013 by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
greater resources amid cuts in social care spending.
2015 marked the fifth year of the RELX Group Environmental Challenge and, in addition to awarding two new prizes, past Legal winners were invited to develop collaboration projects.
Among LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and them CAWST, which was a 2012 winner for its project removing access to justice through its products and services.
In the year, it arsenic from drinking water in Nepal, will be partnering with continued to support legal infrastructure and access to justice in Textto Change, which received funding in 2013 to allow citizens Myanmar.
It also collaborated with the Attorney Generals Office inUganda to use their mobile phones to notify water utilities of inthe Maldives to consolidate, translate and publish the laws of faulty water points.
They will collaborate on a year-long SMS the Maldives and make them available in both printed and online campaign to disseminate useful information from CAWSTs formats to citizens and the international community.
During the waterand sanitation training centre in Zambia to community year, LexisNexis Legal & Professional and the International health workers throughout the region.
Justice Center for Postgraduate Development at Touro Law Center partnered on a new programme to help graduate attorneys Missing People is a UK charity focused on bringing missing support social justice.
Participants in postgraduate programmes children and adults back together with their families.
The gain free one-year access to LexisNexis legal research services, organisation uses Risk & Business Analytics tools, including allowing them to commence pro bono activities while establishing Tracesmart, tohelp in the search.
In the year, we joined the UK their first practice.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional also National Crime Agencys Child Rescue Alert Development Board contributed to the UN Global Compacts UNGC Guide for General supported by partners such as Missing People and Amber Alert Counsel on Corporate Sustainability, which provides practical Europe, which works across 14 European countries to protect guidance to in-house counsel advancing corporate sustainability endangered missing children to help spread awareness of a new issues within their respective organisations, while also reinforcing mobile text service that notifies police forces and members of the the UNGCs 10 Principles focused on human rights, labour, public when a child goes missing in a certain location.
We have environment and anti-corruption.
been exploring with Missing People and Amber Alert Europe how our big data expertise can further their work, including by adapting Exhibitions the poster alert service used in the US-based ADAM programme.
Reed Exhibitions events help strengthen communities and support our corporate responsibility focus areas.
New York Progress 2015 OBJECTIVES ComicCon, which attracted 167,000 attendees in 2015, supports Support the Launched at United Nations theComic Book Legal Defense Fund, a non-profit organisation development and Global Compact in June 2015 protecting the rights of comics artists, publishers, retailers, release of Business librarians and fans.
The show featured sessions on fighting Led 11 global consultations, for the Rule of Law censorship.
Each year, World Travel Market, Reed Exhibitions including in South Africa, framework flagship show for the travel and tourism industry, holds World Uganda, the UK and the US Responsible Tourism Day.
In 2015, the focus was on climate Co-ordinated World Bank change in the lead-up to the UN COP21 climate talks in Paris.
briefing on the framework Inaddition to expert speakers, including Professor of Energy and Power of Research: Two new projects under way Climate Change at the University of Manchester, Kevin Anderson, five-year Environmental between past winners: SMS the day featured a senior industry debate on the travel industrys Challenge collaboration campaign for community health role in limiting carbon emissions.
Reed Exhibitions helped launch project workers in Zambia and an app for the new Promotional Product Service Institute PSI Sustainability tracking use of Ecofiltro water Awards during the year to evaluate PSI members in-house filters in Guatemala initiatives, products and campaigns for their positive economic, environmental and social impacts.
Big Data for Good: Scoping work with Missing explore project to find People and Amber Alert Europe Across RELX Group missing children in Joined UK National Crime Agencys In 2015, we supported the launch of Business for the Rule of Law, Europe Child Rescue Alert Development aglobal initiative led by the UNGC, which highlights the essential Board to promote missing child relationship between the rule of law and sustainable development, text alert service for citizens and hosting 11 consultations, including in Australia, Canada, India, law enforcement agencies Malaysia, Myanmar, South Africa, Uganda, the UK and the US.
The new framework provides a guide to businesses around the world in taking proactive, voluntary actions to support the rule of law in their
