112 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 9 Disposals and other items Accounting policy Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their current condition and for which a sales process is considered highly probable to complete are classified as assets held for sale and are carried at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on anticipated disposal proceeds, typically derived from firm or indicative offers from potential acquirers.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated following their classification as held for sale.
Liabilities of businesses held for sale are also separately classified on the statement of financial position.
Fair value movements in the venture capital portfolio, which are classifed as held for trading, are reported within disposals and other items - see note 17.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Revaluation of held for trading investments 8 8 5 Loss gain on disposal of businesses and assets held for sale 19 19 11 Net losses gains on disposals and other items 11 11 16 10 Taxation Accounting policy Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside the income statement either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or through a business combination, in which case the tax appears in the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of financial position.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference canbe controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised, and are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Critical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions, giving rise to complex tax issues that require management to exercise judgement in making tax determinations.
As a multinational enterprise, our tax returns in the countries in which we operate are subject to tax authority audits as a matter of routine.
While the Group is confident that tax returns are appropriately prepared and filed, amounts are provided in respect of uncertain tax positions that reflect the risk with respect to tax matters under active discussion with tax authorities, or which are otherwise considered to involve uncertainty.
Amounts are provided using the best estimate of tax expected to be paid based on an assessment of all relevant factors.
However, it is possible that at some future date liabilities will be adjusted as a result of audits by taxing authorities.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 10 Taxation continued Accounting policy continued In particular, although we report cross-border transactions undertaken between Group subsidiaries on an arms-length basis in taxreturns in accordance with OECD guidelines, transfer pricing relies on the exercise of judgement and it is frequently possible forthere to be a range of legitimate and reasonable views.
This means that it is impossible to be certain that the returns basis will be sustained on examination.
Discussions with tax authorities relating to cross-border transactions and other matters are ongoing in each of our major trading jurisdictions.
Although the timing and amount of final resolution of these uncertain tax positions cannot bereliably predicted, no significant impact on the overall financial position of the Group is expected in the near term.
Estimation of income taxes also includes assessments of the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable based on existing tax laws and forecasts of future taxable profits against which the underlying tax deductions can be utilised.
The recoverability of these assets is reassessed at the end of each reporting period, and changes in recognition of deferred tax assets will affect the tax liability in the period of that reassessment.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Current tax United Kingdom 65 36 50 The Netherlands 45 93 80 Rest of world 260 228 222 Total current tax charge 370 357 352 Deferred tax 72 88 271 Tax expense 298 269 81 Cash tax paid in the year was 343m 2014: 348m: 2013: 362m, which is different to the tax expense for the year set out above.
There are a number of reasons why the cash tax payments in a particular year will be different from the tax expense in the accounts: Deferred tax: Tax expense includes deferred tax, which is an accounting adjustment arising from temporary differences: Temporary differences occur when an item has to be included in the income statement in one year but is taxed in another year: and RELX Group also has significant deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets recognised as a result of acquisition accounting, which are credited to the income statement as the intangible asset is amortised for accounting purposes.
Timing differences: Tax payments relating to a particular years profits are typically due partly in the year and partly in the following year.
Prior period adjustments: Current tax expense is the best estimate at the end of the period of cash tax expected to be paid: and To the extent the final liability is higher or lower than that estimate, any cash tax impact will occur in a later period.
Items recorded in equity and other comprehensive income: Some of the benefits of tax deductions related to share based payments, pensions and hedging are credited to equity or other comprehensive income rather than to tax expense, and so the cash tax liability will be lower than the current tax expense in years when those deductions are available.
Set out below is a reconciliation of the difference between tax expense for the period and the theoretical expense calculated by multiplying accounting profit by the applicable tax rate.
As an enterprise with two listed parent companies in different jurisdictions, we believe the most meaningful applicable rate is that obtained by multiplying the accounting profits and losses of all consolidated entities by the applicable domestic rate in each of those entities jurisdictions.
114 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 10 Taxation continued The net tax expense charged on profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average of tax rates applicable to accounting profits and losses of the consolidated entities, as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Profit before tax 1,312 1,229 1,196 Tax at average applicable rates 299 292 280 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 11 21 8 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 16 14 25 US state taxes 9 12 11 Non-deductible costs of share based remuneration 3 3 Non-deductible disposal-related gains and losses 4 22 22 Tax losses of the period not recognised 2 4 4 Recognition and utilisation of tax losses that arose in prior years 4 9 Deferred tax credit on the alignment of business assets 221 Other adjustments in respect of prior periods 16 50 24 Deferred tax effect of changes in tax rates 4 Tax expense 298 269 81 The weighted average applicable tax rate for the year was 22.8% 2014: 23.7%: 2013: 23.4%, reflecting the applicable rates in the countries where the Group earns profits.
Based on current business plans, this mix of profits is not expected to change significantly inthe future.
The average rate will benefit by less than 0.5% from the announced reduction in the corporate tax rate in the UK from thecurrent 20% to 18% from 2020.
Subject to any one-off adjustments resulting from the settlement of uncertain tax positions, or any disposal profit or loss not taxed at average rates, it is expected that tax expense as a proportion of profit before tax will continue to be broadly in line with the weighted average applicable tax rate.
During 2013, the Group aligned certain business assets with their global management structure.
As a result of this alignment, the tax deductible value of these assets was updated to market value.
This resulted in a deferred tax credit of 221m which reduced the overall tax expense as a proportion of profit before tax in 2013.
This credit was excluded from adjusted net profit along with other deferred tax relating to amortisation of intangible assets.
The following tax has been recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity during the year: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Tax on actuarial movements on defined benefit pension schemes 34 63 24 Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 18 13 14 Net tax debit credit recognised in other comprehensive income 16 76 38 Tax credit on share based remuneration recognised directly in equity 17 20 20 A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system, including reductions of the main rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and from 19% to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020, were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
The Group has measured its UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period at 18% 2014: 20%, which has resulted in recognition of a deferred tax charge of nil in tax expense, a charge of 5m in other comprehensive income, and a charge of 1m directly inequity for the period.
