Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 19 Financial instruments Accounting policy Financial instruments comprise investments other than investments in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Investments other than investments in joint ventures and associates are classified as either held for trading or available for sale, as described in note 17.
These investments are typically classified as either Level 1 or 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of such investments is based on either quoted market prices or other observable market inputs.
Trade receivables are carried in the statement of financial position at invoiced value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the ageing of trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
Borrowings and payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost other than fixed rate borrowings in designated hedging relationships for which the carrying amount of the hedged portion of the borrowings is subsequently adjusted for the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding income or expense included in the income statement within finance costs.
The offsetting gains or losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related derivatives are also recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
When the related derivative expires, is sold or terminated, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged borrowing is amortised in the income statement over the period to maturity of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised net of tax directly in equity in thehedge reserve.
If a hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in therecognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of anasset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of hedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is either retained in equity until the firm commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments are classified as held for trading and recorded in the statement of financial position at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts represent the replacement costs calculated using observable market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long-term borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at observable market rates.
These instruments are accordingly classified as Level 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
The main financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity risk, market risk comprising interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk andcredit risk.
Financial instruments are used to finance the Group businesses and to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The Groups businesses do not enter into speculative derivative transactions.
Details of financial instruments subject to liquidity, marketand credit risks are described below.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt programmes to fund its requirements at competitive rates.
The balance of long-term debt, short-term debt and committed bank facilities is managed to provide security of funding, taking into account the cash generation cycle of the business and the uncertain size and timing of acquisition spend.
To accommodate the significant free cash flow generated by the Group and to capitalise on an inexpensive source of funding, a meaningful portion of the overall debt portfolio is typically kept short-term as long as there exists acceptable liquidity in the commercial paper markets and sufficient capacity under committed credit lines.
The Group's treasury policies ensure adequate liquidity by requiring a that no more than $1.5bn of term debt matures in any 12-month period, b that the sum of term debt maturing over the ensuing 12 months plus short-term borrowings is less than the sum of available cash plus committed facilities and c that minimum levels of borrowing with maturities over three and five years are maintained.
The treasury policies ensure debt efficiency by a targeting certain levels of short-term borrowings across a given year, b maintaining a weighted average maturity of the gross debt portfolio of approximately 5 years and c minimising surplus cash balances.
From time to time, based on cash flow and market conditions, the Group may redeem term debt early or repurchase outstanding debt in the open market.
