Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate responsibility 49 5.
Supply chain RE Cares, our global community programme, supports employee We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for and corporate engagement that makes a positive impact on society ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to through volunteerism and giving.
In addition to local initiatives of all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour importance to employees, the programmes core focus is on and the environment.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier education for disadvantaged young people that advances one or more SRS database, in 2015 we tracked 399 key suppliers and those of our unique contributions as a business.
Staff have up to two days wedeem high risk according to the Carnstone Supplier Risk Tool.
paid leave per year for their own community work.
We donated 3.1m Developed for the Group, the tool incorporates eight indicators, incash including through matching gifts and the equivalent of including human trafficking information from the US State 13.7m in products, services and staff time in 2015.
37% of Department and Environmental Performance Index results employees were engaged in volunteering through RE Cares and produced by Yale and Columbia universities.
The tracking list wereached more than 35,000 disadvantaged young people through changes year on year based on the number of suppliers we do time, in-kind and cash donations.
In 2015, we developed an impact business with who meet the required criteria.
We started 2015 measurement tool adapted from LBG, a community investment with 57% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list as signatories to network we have been a member of for 10 years, to record and assess theSupplier Code and reached 88% by year end 11% of the total the impact on beneficiaries and employees of our central initiatives.
are suppliers who have provided internal codes in lieu, which we believe to be as stringent as our own.
We have embedded signing A network of 212 RE Cares Champions 22 new Champions in 2015 the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing tool as a criterion for doing ensures the vibrancy of our community engagement around the business with us, and have an additional 2,843 suppliers who world.
Each September, they hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our havesigned the Supplier Code.
community focus and, in 2015, 80% of locations took part.
Among them, Elsevier Operations organised a Global Day of Caring over Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 86 external 24hours across seven time zones, while their colleagues in Rio fide audits of high-risk suppliers as part of their comprehensive Janeiro created a library, with books donated by employees, in a Workplace Conditions Assessment and Corrective and favela only accessible by gondola lift.
During RE Cares Month, Preventative Actions programme.
Any incidence of non-compliance weheld our annual global book drive, yielding over 6,000 books for identified in the audit process triggers a corrective action plan local and developing world readers, and announced the winners agreed with the supplier, with remediation required on all issues.
ofthe fifth Recognising Those Who Care Awards to highlight the The roll-out of our US Supplier Diversity programme continued exceptional contributions to RE Cares of 11 individuals and four RE in2015 with efforts to increase the number of diverse suppliers Cares teams.
Individual winners from across the business travelled invited to bid on relevant sourcing projects.
The process has to the Philippines with the Kapatid Kita Mahal Kita Foundation, resulted in a $23.6m increase in spend with diverse suppliers.
acharity partner of our Philippines office over the last four years, Feedback is provided to diverse suppliers after the competitive which provides underprivileged children from the Payatas dumpsite bidding process to improve their opportunities for development.
community with scholarships and other educational support.
Thetrip was led for the fifth time by Youngsuk YS Chi, Director 2015 OBJECTIVES Progress ofCorporate Affairs.
Among the teams winning for exceptional Increase core suppliers as 95% of core suppliers as community engagement were Risk & Business Analytics in signatories to the Code Code signatories Skokie, Illinois, which organised 41 volunteer programmes, collection drives and fundraising efforts over one year.
Enhance external 86 audits completed Workplace Conditions 2015 OBJECTIVES Progress Assessment tool with 60% of locations taking 80% of locations took part external review of part in RE Cares Month Corrective Action Plan fulfilment Develop RE Cares impact Adapted LBG project Advance US Supplier $23.6m increase in spend measurement tool assessment template to track Diversity and Inclusion with diverse suppliers impact criteria programme Consultations with RE Cares Champions and community 2016 OBJECTIVES partners Increase core suppliers as signatories to the Supplier Code Use Corrective and Preventative Actions tool to ensure 2016 OBJECTIVES continuous improvement in audit results 60% of RE Cares Champions supporting new global Continue to advance US Supplier Diversity programme fundraising partnership Deploy project assessment template with feedback OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION on key central initiatives Reduce risk by ensuring adherence to our Supplier Code ofConduct through training, auditing and remediation: OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION strengthening supplier relationships through partnerships Use our unique contributions to advance education for disadvantaged young people: track the impact of community investment activities
