48 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 2015 OBJECTIVES Progress Principles and the risk assessment methodology that will inform Map internal Cross-business review: pursuit of our thinking as we review them next year in anticipation of the first practice against EDGE gender certification QFP internal audits.
the UN Womens programme We are committed to improving access to our products and Empowerment Shared out mapping tool with services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
Our Principles WEPs leadership at the UNGC Accessibility Policy was developed in 2013 to lead the industry in providing accessibility solutions to customers with products that Embed inclusive Cross-business input into inclusive are operable, understandable and robust.
In 2015, members of the leadership as a leadership definition Accessibility Working Group logged 120 accessibility projects and core management Engagement of talent managers Elseviers Global Books Digital Archive fulfilled more than 4,000 competency oninclusion in competency disability requests, 65% of them through frameworks and business AccessText.
org, a service it helped establish.
Developments in the leadership programmes year include a new online accessibility course for the benefit of all employees and a new intranet site dedicated to accessibility.
Insight from experts, including Wealso launched a new baseline tool, the tiered model for Columbia Business School accessibility, to prioritise accessibility features in our products in Targeted wellness Focus on prevention of type 2 conjunction with the chief technology officers across the business.
campaign focused on diabetes, primarily at locations And we developed new compliance templates, including for the avoiding managing where risk is higher WCAG 2.0 global accessibility guidelines.
diabetes Campaign focused on small Our 2015 CR Forum Stakeholder Session involved over 125 lifestyle changes with big impact attendees online and in person.
It focused on data privacy and Global activities on World security, and featured a mix of internal and external contributors.
Diabetes Day in November Content was made available on our intranet and viewed by staffglobally.
2016 OBJECTIVES 2015 OBJECTIVES Progress Expand diversity and inclusion employee resource groups Customer engagement: CR as a Sales Tool Working sharing our CR Groupwidened Develop pilot mentoring programme expertise webinar Presentations for customers Increase awareness of mental health at work series including legal students and OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION lawfirms Focus on talent development, diversity and inclusion, and Conduct 10 Quality First 23 QFP risk assessments well-being, to ensure a high-performing and satisfied Principles QFP risk completed workforce assessments Reviewed Principles and assessment criteria 4.
Customers Network of QFP business unitcontacts named In 2015, we surveyed more than 475,000 customers through Net Develop baseline tool to Tiered product model for Promoter Score measuring customer advocacy and business determine accessibility accessibility rolled out and dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen our requirements for new championed by chief understanding of their needs and further drives forward a and existing sites technology officers customer-centric culture across the Group.
Results were reviewed by the CEO and senior operational managers and Developed several new communicated to staff.
To aid colleagues who work with compliance templates, customers, during the year we widened our CR as a Sales Tool including for WCAG 2.0 Working Group and continued to incorporate CR into customerfacing staff training with outreach to key sales and marketing 2016 OBJECTIVES teams.
In addition, we shared our CR focus with key customer Expand QFPs beyond content and data to other areas such groups including law school students and firms.
as customer support Our cross-business Editorial Policy Working Group updated the New CR as a Sales Tool offerings, including video content Editorial Policy in 2015 for clarity and applicability across thecompany.
We also added in reference to our commitment to Hold 15 accessibility feedback sessions to engage people universal, sustainable access to information.
It will be translated with disabilities into key languages and rolled out with a message from the Chief OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION Legal Officer and Company Secretary in 2016.
Increase our customer base across our four business units We advanced our Quality First Principles QFP in the year, through active listening and engagement, and a focus on completing 23 QFP risk assessments, and identified senior quality editorial and quality standards, and accessibility champions for our business units.
We consulted externally on the
