Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information RELX NV 163 Investments treasury and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Details of Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision, share capital and shares held in treasury are set out in note 26 of ifappropriate, for any impairment in value.
The fair value of the the Group consolidated financial statements.
award of share options and conditional shares over RELX NV Foreign exchange translation ordinary shares to employees of the Group are treated as a Transactions entered into in foreign currencies are recorded at capitalcontribution.
the exchange rates applicable at the time of the transaction.
Other assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
Taxation Refer to note 10 on page 112 of the RELX Group consolidated Shares held in treasury financial statements for the taxation accounting policies.
The amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, for shares repurchased is recognised as shares held in Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Other payables Other payables include 5m 2014: 4m of the Groups employee convertible debenture loans with a weighted average interest rate of 1.25% 2014: 1.65%.
Depending on the conversion terms, the surrender of 200 par value debenture loans qualifies for 50 RELX NV ordinary shares.
2 Parent company and consolidated financial statements YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 2014 m m RELX NV parent company profit attributable to shareholders 787 537 RELX PLC parent company profit attributable to shareholders 918 779 Consolidated net profit attributable to parent companies shareholders 1,391 1,184 The difference between the parent company and consolidated profit and loss arises as the parent company profit and loss accounts include dividends from RELX Group plc and other intra-group transactions which are eliminated on a consolidated basis whereas the RELX Group consolidated net profit includes the consolidated net profit of the Group's subsidiaries and the Group's share of the results of its joint ventures and associates.
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 2014 m m RELX NV parent company shareholders funds 4,218 4,441 RELX PLC parent company shareholders' funds 4,235 3,965 Consolidated shareholders equity 2,916 2,717 The difference between the parent company and consolidated shareholders funds arise as the parent company shareholders funds includes the investment in RELX Group plc held at cost less any provision for impairment, and other intra-group transactions, such asintra-group funding, which eliminate on consolidation, whereas the consolidated equity includes the investment in subsidiaries and the assets and liabilities including external borrowings of the Group as a whole.
3 Related party transactions All transactions with joint ventures and the Groups employees which are related parties of RELX NV, are reflected in these financial statements.
Joint ventures are set out in note 4.
Transactions with key management personnel including share based remuneration costs are set out in note 28 to the Group consolidated financial statements and details of the directors remuneration are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 90.
