Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 15 Our Operational Growth Levers At Rentokil Initial the drive for growth is being delivered through our More about our growth levers differentiated plan for each quadrant, referred to earlier on the previous page.
However, in addition, the businesses utilise six revenue growth Over the next several pages, we describe some of our growth initiatives levers to drive performance.
including the development of new innovations including PestConnect and HygieneConnect, how we can respond to the growing threat from First, we target our offer appropriately, ensuring we are providing the mosquitoes and our recent acquisition of Steritech.
right offer to the right customers but also that we are masters of our markets, adapting our thinking to local needs.
Second, we deliver sales effectiveness in both building the sales pipeline and through sales brilliance.
Finally, we drive retention and growth through delivery of outstanding customer service, account management and service differentiation.
Driving Global warming National Accounts A combination of global Targeting our offer warming and intense National Accounts rainfall is leading to an represent 25% of Steritech explosion in mosquito revenue.
Strong capability Public population in this segment affords intolerance NA National greater opportunity to An increasing Accounts market worth grow market share.
intolerance to mosquito bites and anxiety to the diseases they carry $ 680m Public health A serious risk to public health and awareness Represents 28% of diseases like Malaria commercial pest control and Dengue is driving demand for improved market.
mosquito control Strong client relationships How we control Opportunities to enhance mosquitos already strong existing client relationship by selling additional insight Steritech and services.
Manage, report A key player & educate in Canada growth drivers Inspection 1 2 Well placed in Canada to scale operations and become a national player and market leader.
Monitoring Control Identify Where to Play Mastering Singapore programme Controlling mosquitos Proof of Rentokil Initial service 7000 Total Mosquito Count Treatment began in week 2 Complementary 6000 service line our Markets 5000 Steritechs Brands Standards services are 4000 a unique product offering, 3000 providing a new dimension to Rentokil Initials pest and 2000 hygiene services.
Larvae found in water Adult home and Adult open areas Adult indoors Treated with larvicide business Truck mounted sprayer Permanent traps 1000 sp ecically targeted Application of liquid for larger fogging areas deployed and used 0 against the larval stage mosquito adulticide through by customers 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 of Mosquito growth fogging or misting Week Steritech Mosquito control 22 23 Sales Effectiveness go to page 22 go to page 23 High performance, long life traps communicate using wireless technology, alerting pest technician when a rodent is caught LoRa 3 4 A scalable cloud solution developed in partnership with Google and PA consulting is central to the connect technology, enhancing operations through data insight and process automation.
Building the Sales Activity streamed to technician.
Data analytics inform efficient route planning Pipeline Brilliance of eld technicians and reduced time on site.
Data analytics inform improvement to customer service plans myRentokil Considerable Retention & Growth potential, x3 strong demand Demand tripled in the last 12 months, product revenue rising from The obvious Heavily regulated The technology LoRa second Cloud based 450k to 1.3m in the choice for high EU markets can be easily generation wireless technology future Netherlands test dependency create demand applied to existing provides broad proofs big data market.
German and customers infrastructure tech opportunities management, UK test markets are within internet provides insight forecasting similar of things and service demand and growth enhancements PestConnect HygieneConnect 24 25 go to page 24 go to page 25 5 6 Delivering Engaging our our Promise Customers Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
