46 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 2015 OBJECTIVES Progress characteristics.
Our D&I Strategy is focused on translating the Statement into practical action.
Among its commitments is Establish common Established standard approach maintaining a D&I Advisory Group composed of a senior business approach to for development and issuance and HR leader from each business unit, supported by a broader development and of compliance and data privacy D&I Working Group.
We encourage affinity groups, such as management of policies womens forums and pride groups, which facilitate support, corporate policies Improved intranet posting of mentoring and community involvement.
compliance policies for easier access to all translated versions During 2015, we continued to take steps to embed inclusive leadership as a core management competency, engaging our New communication New weekly emails and regular heads of talent on a common definition and reviewing our campaigns to articles have increased competency frameworks across the company.
We have also supplement formal readership of compliance and sought advice from outside experts, including at Columbia compliance training governance materials Business School.
Issued third series of entertaining security CEO Erik Engstrom signed the Womens Empowerment awareness videos, Principles WEPs, a UNGC and UN Women initiative designed to  help companies empower women and promote gender equality.
Inthe year, we mapped our existing practices relative to the WEPs.
Continue to enhance Issued global policy and various Accordingly, Elsevier has begun working towards EDGE gender trade sanctions related compliance tools and equality certification, which has involved employee surveys across and export controls communications to increase eight countries and an external review of policies and procedures.
compliance procedures employee awareness and and tools simplify compliance efforts In 2015, we undertook our triennial global employee opinion survey.
Globally, 85% of all employees shared their views, the 2016 OBJECTIVES highest response rate we have achieved to date.
Combined results Develop compliance plan for impending EU General Data across the Group showed progress since the last survey in 2012 Protection Regulations with increases in employee engagement, net promoter score indicating an increased likelihood employees would recommend Implement enhanced email retention policy for improved working forthe company, confidence in the quality of our consistency and efficiency products and services, and innovation.
Where results showed Expand network of global compliance investigators areas for improvement, they will be addressed by department, OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION team and location.
Undertake consistent actions that reinforce excellence in Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace corporate governance and compliance with all applicable asoutlined in the Groups Global Health and Safety Policy.
We legislation and our principles and policies concentrate on areas of greatest risk for example, warehouses, events and exhibitions.
However, as a primarily office-based company, our key impact areas are manual handling, slips, trips 3.
To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments and work with a third Our approximately 30,000 people are our strength.
Our workforce partyin the US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex is 52% female and 48% male, with an average length of service of orsevere claim.
There were 26 lost time reportable cases in the eight years.
There were 44% female and 56% male managers, and year vs 25 in 2014.
31% female and 69% male senior operational managers.
Female Male In the US, where we have the largest concentration of employees, Board of Directors 3 30% 7 70% the CareConnect and REACH programmes promote workplace well-being through health screenings, online assessments, Senior operational 137 31% 304 69% stress awareness training and smoking cessation courses, with managers financial incentives for participation.
In 2015, several thousand All employees 15,600 52% 14,400 48% calls were fielded by CareConnect and nearly 3,000 employees enrolled in personal health support programmes for assistance Senior operational managers are defined as those managers up to and including three reporting lines from the CEO with concerns such as weight loss or diabetes prevention.
Full-time equivalent Our annual Fit2Win global wellbeing competition encourages At year end 2015, women made up 30% of the members of the employees to establish fitness teams to compete for cash prizes RELX Boards.
The two Executive Directors on the Boards are for charities of their choice.
Across the Group, 95 teams took part male.
The Nominations Committee considers the knowledge, and ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 111,711 miles 179,781 experience and background of individual Board directors.
km, a 25% increase in the total distance and 20% increase in the number of teams over 2014.
The Groups Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement www.
com go Diversity articulates our commitment to In November 2015, we held a global, week-long diabetes adiverse workforce and environment that respects individuals campaign featuring screenings, webinars, posters and special and their contributions, regardless of gender, race or other events.
A total of 70 offices took part, covering 22,000 employees.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information B Ru Es Lin X G esrso rev up ieC w or pC or or ap te or ra etsep r on es sp ib on ilis ty ibility 47 47 Advancing The eyeWitness to Atrocities app will be a transformational tool in the fight for human rights, providing a human rights: solution to the evidentiary challenges surrounding mobile phone footage.
Mark Ellis the eyeWitness International Bar Association ExecutiveDirector to Atrocities app 130 countries accessed eyeWitness in 2015 The eyeWitness app is available on all Android-enabled phones Working with the International Bar Association, LexisNexis Legal &Professional helped launch eyeWitness to Atrocities in 2015, a Social media is increasingly a forum for mobile phone app that allows citizens to securely and verifiably report highlighting human rights abuses, but human rights atrocities so that the information can serve as evidence in law courts.
Now, anyone with an Android smartphone from without attribution and other necessary journalists and investigators to affected citizens can download information the content cannot be used thefree app and contribute to bringing perpetrators to account for crimes against humanity, including torture and war crimes.
design is based on rules of evidence in international, regional and national courts and tribunals.
It incorporates features to guarantee authenticity, facilitate verification and protect confidentiality by allowing the user to choose whether they wish to submit their report anonymously.
eyeWitness utilises the same technology LexisNexis Legal & Professional deploys to safeguard sensitive and confidential material for its clients.
It is a tangible example of RELX Groups commitment to advancing the rule of law around the world.
