112 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 9 Disposals and other items Accounting policy Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their current condition and for which a sales process is considered highly probable to complete are classified as assets held for sale and are carried at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on anticipated disposal proceeds, typically derived from firm or indicative offers from potential acquirers.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated following their classification as held for sale.
Liabilities of businesses held for sale are also separately classified on the statement of financial position.
Fair value movements in the venture capital portfolio, which are classifed as held for trading, are reported within disposals and other items - see note 17.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Revaluation of held for trading investments 8 8 5 Loss gain on disposal of businesses and assets held for sale 19 19 11 Net losses gains on disposals and other items 11 11 16 10 Taxation Accounting policy Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside the income statement either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or through a business combination, in which case the tax appears in the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of financial position.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference canbe controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised, and are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Critical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions, giving rise to complex tax issues that require management to exercise judgement in making tax determinations.
As a multinational enterprise, our tax returns in the countries in which we operate are subject to tax authority audits as a matter of routine.
While the Group is confident that tax returns are appropriately prepared and filed, amounts are provided in respect of uncertain tax positions that reflect the risk with respect to tax matters under active discussion with tax authorities, or which are otherwise considered to involve uncertainty.
Amounts are provided using the best estimate of tax expected to be paid based on an assessment of all relevant factors.
However, it is possible that at some future date liabilities will be adjusted as a result of audits by taxing authorities.
