Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate responsibility 45 Key elements of the Code and policies are reinforced throughout 2016 OBJECTIVES the year through general employee materials and messages Universal, sustainable access to information: Establish targeted to special audiences such as managers and employees in process to ensure relief and other agencies gain access to high-risk roles or locations.
In 2015, with a dedicated compliance relevant information during disasters and emergencies communication director, weekly emails and regular articles have Advance of science and health: Launch of Innovations in increased readership of compliance and governance materials, Health Information programme including a popular third series of security awareness videos.
Protection of society: Assist UNGC in promoting awareness Reports of violations of the Code or related policies are promptly and support for Business for the Rule of Law investigated, with careful tracking and monitoring of violations andrelated mitigation and remediation efforts by our Compliance Promotion of the rule of law and access to justice: New tools Group.
We train investigators to conduct employee relations, and support in the search for missing children with key datasecurity, financial misconduct and other relevant matters.
partners NCMEC, Missing People and Amber Alert Europe Fostering communities: Expand reach of World Travel In 2015, we remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to Markets World Responsible Tourism Day ensurecompliance with applicable bribery and sanctions laws.
We also released a RELX Group-wide global Electronic OUR FIVE-YEAR VISION WorkplacePolicy, expanding on the Code and replacing Use our products and expertise to advance the Sustainable separatebusiness policies inorder to establish a common Development Goals SDGs, including: approach to the development and management of corporate policies.
To that end, we also broadened intranet posting of SDG3: Good health and well-being policies for easier access to translated versions.
SDG4: Quality education SDG10: Reduced inequalities As a signatory to the UNGC and its principles, encompassing labour, environment, anti-corruption and human rights, we SDG13: Climate action demonstrated leadership in 2015 by serving on the UNGC Advisory Create an SDG Resource Centre Group for the UK, the UNGC Supply Chain Advisory Group and the Caring for Climate Steering Group.
We were also on the board of 2.
Governance the Alliance for Water Stewardship on behalf of the UNGC CEO Water Mandate.
We played a leadership role in the UNGCs launch Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the Code is of Business for the Rule of Law and the Guide for General Counsel disseminated to every employee and sets the standards for our on Corporate Sustainability, and took part in the UNGCs 15th corporate and individual conduct.
In 2015, we revised the Code to anniversary events and the COP21 Caring for Climate Business describe our social media policy, include learning aids, increase Forum.
UNGC peers judged our 2015 Communication on Progress, interactivity and streamline wording.
Among other topics, the required of signatories each year, to have attained Advanced Level.
Codecontinues to address fair competition, anti-bribery, conflicts In the year, we also served on the UN Secretary-Generals legal of interest, employment practices, data protection and appropriate taskforce helping to consider the post-2015 Sustainable use of company property and information.
It also encourages Development Goals.
reporting of violations with an anonymous reporting option andprohibits retaliation.
The Code incorporates the principles of We operate in accordance with our Tax Principles, which can the UNGC, particularly stressing our commitment to human rights.
In 2015, the RELX In accordance with the UNs Guiding Principles on Business and Group global business paid 343m in corporate taxes.
We are Human Rights, we have considered where and how we operate aresponsible corporate taxpayer and conduct our tax affairs to andhave concluded that there is low human rights risk in our ensure compliance with all laws and relevant regulations in the directemployment activities for more information on human countries in which we operate.
The Statement of Investment rights see Supply chain on page 49.
Principles for the Reed Elsevier Pension Scheme indicates that the extent to which social, environmental or ethical issues may have a All employees were given required training on the 2015 Code.
financial impact on the portfolio, or may have a detrimental effect Thistraining is part of the compliance curriculum mandated on the strength of the employer covenant, is taken into account fornew hires and is reissued at regular intervals to ensure full when making investment decisions.
CR issues are relevant to understanding and acknowledgement of the Code and associated otherinvestment decisions we make.
Mandatory periodic training covers topics on anti-bribery, investments is Healthline, which helps more than 35m consumers competition laws, protecting data and preventing workplace every month to find, understand and manage healthcare harassment, suplemented by in-person training for higher-risk roles.
information, with access to over 1bn web pages.
