Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies Basis of preparation RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly held entities.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and New York, and RELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which, with effect from February 2015, holds all the Groups operating businesses and financing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
The Governing Agreement determines the equalisation ratio between RELX PLC and RELX NV shares.
Following a bonus issue of RELX NV ordinary shares declared on 30 June 2015, one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
As a result of these arrangements, all shareholders can be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Consequently, the Directors have concluded that the Group forms a single reporting entity for the presentation of consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group consolidated financial information represents the interests of both sets of shareholders and is presented by both RELX PLC and RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
The Group consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are unchanged from the combined financial statements previously reported, except for changes to the calculation of earnings per share as set out in note 11 on page 115.
The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, subsidiaries of the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method and investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
All intra-group transactions and balances areeliminated.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets acquired.
This includes those adjustments made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the consolidated financial statements up to or from the date that control passes from or to the Group.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the Group are identified separately from shareholders equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition and the non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
These financial statements form part of the statutory information to be provided by RELX PLC and RELX NV, but are not for a legal entity and do not include all the information required to be disclosed by a company in its financial statements under the UK Companies Act 2006 or the Dutch Civil Code.
Accounting policies The Group's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The accounting policies applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements are unchanged from the accounting policies applied in preparing the combined financial statements in the 2014 and 2013 RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements, with the exception of changes to the calculation of earnings per share which is set out in note 11 on page 115.
The accounting policies under IFRS are included in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies below are applied throughout the financial statements.
Foreign exchange translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the income statement other than where hedge accounting applies as set out on pages 125 to 129.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items and cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
Significant individual items of income and expense and cash flows in foreign operations are translated at the rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks.
Details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative financial instruments are set out on page 125.
100 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The most significant accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group, and those requiring the most subjective or complex judgement, relate to and are included in the following notes: valuation of goodwill and intangible assets notes 15 and 16 capitalisation of development spend note 16 taxation note 10 accounting for defined benefit pension schemes note 6.
Other significant accounting policies The accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition is also significant in determining the financial condition and results of the Group, although the application of this policy is more straightforward.
This policy is included in note 2.
Standards and amendments effective for the year The interpretations and amendments to IFRS effective for 2015 have not had a significant impact on the Groups accounting policies orreporting.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and their expected impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of the Group areset out below.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2018 financial year.
The standard replaces the existing classification and measurement requirements in IAS39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for financial assets by requiring entities to classify them as being measured either at amortised cost or fair value depending on the business model and contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
For financial liabilities, IFRS9 requires an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value to present the portion of the change inits fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk in the other comprehensive income rather than the income statement.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assetsand liabilities in the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the 2018 financial year.
The new standard provides a single point ofreference for revenue recognition, replacing a range of different revenue accounting standards, interpretations and guidance.
Management is in the process of assessing the impact of this new standard.
IFRS16 Leases effective for the 2019 financial year.
The standard replaces the existing leasing standard, IAS17 Leases.
The new standard eliminates the distinction between operating and finance leases and requires lessees to recognise all leases, with a remaining term of greater than 12 months, in the statement of financial position.
Management is in the process of assessing theimpact of this new standard.
Additionally, a number of amendments and interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on the accounting policies and reporting.
