172 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Shareholder information RELX Group corporate structure simplification and parent Information for RELX PLC ordinary company name changes shareholders In July 2015, RELX Group implemented its corporate structure simplification and name changes, as announced in February Shareholder services 2015and approved at the Annual General Meetings of the parent The RELX PLC ordinary share register is administered by Equiniti companies in April 2015.
As of 1 July 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for shareholders at andReed Elsevier NV formally changed their names to RELX www.
Shareview allows shareholders to monitor PLCand RELX NV respectively.
the value of their shareholdings, view their dividend payments and submit dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2015 submit their proxy voting instructions ahead of company meetings, The RELX Group Annual Reports and consolidated Financial as well as update their personal contact details.
Shareview Statements for RELX PLC and RELX NV for the year ended Dealing provides a share purchase and sale facility.
Equinitis 31December 2015, and the Corporate Governance Statement contact details are shown on page 174. ofRELX NV are available on the Groups website, and from the registered offices of the respective parent companies shown on Electronic communications page 174.
Additional financial information, including the interim While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be andfull-year results announcements, trading updates and available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance presentations is also available on the Groups website, with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's articles of www.
association, RELX PLC uses the Groups website as the main The consolidated financial statements set out in the Annual method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in sterling, details online at Shareview, shareholders can be notified by email withsummary financial information expressed in euros and when shareholder communications are published on the Groups USdollars.
The financial statements of RELX PLC and RELX NV website.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
Shareholders who hold their RELX PLC shares through CREST Interim results may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the CREST RELX PLC and RELX NV no longer publish interim results in hard electronic proxy appointment service by using the procedures copy.
The interim results are available on the Groups website, described in the CREST manual.
Dividend mandates Share price information Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid RELX PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock directlyinto a UK bank or building society account.
ofpayment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques RELX NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the Euronext inthe post and ensures the account is credited on the dividend Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online atwww.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary shares are quoted on the New shown on page 174.
York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their Following the implementation of the Groups corporate structure dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly simplification on 1 July 2015, the RELX PLC and RELX NV ADRs into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, each represent one RELX PLC or one RELX NV ordinary share and the fees applicable, are available at www.
The table below sets out the current and former by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 174.
ADR Ratios to ordinary shares Dividend Reinvestment Plan PLC ADRs NV ADRs Shareholders can choose to reinvest their RELX PLC dividends bypurchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment To 30 June 2015 1:4 1:2 Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning From 1 July 2015 1:1 1:1 the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary share prices and the ADR dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on prices may be obtained from the Groups website, other online page 174. sources and the financial pages of some newspapers.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT THE INVESTOR CENTRE SECTION OF THE GROUPS WEBSITE WWW.
COM INVESTORCENTRE Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Shareholder information 173 Share dealing service How to avoid share fraud and boiler room scams A telephone and internet dealing service is available through The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has issued some guidance Equiniti, which provides a simple way for UKresident shareholders on how to recognise and avoid investment fraud: to buy or sell RELX PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 0345 603 Legitimate firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact 7037 between 8.30am and 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, you unexpectedly with an offer to buy or sell shares.
andfor internet dealing log on to www.
If you receive an unsolicited phone call, do not get into a Youwillneed your shareholder account number shown on your conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting dividend tax voucher.
Individual savings account Check the Financial Services Register available at A single company ISA for RELX PLC shares is available through www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from www.
co. uk ISA, youisauthorised by the FCA.
If you wish to call the person or by writing to Equiniti at the address shown on page 174, or by calling firm back, only use the contact details listed on the Register.
their ISA helpline on 0371 384 2244 between 8.30am and 5.30pm Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have any UK time, Monday to Friday.
contact details on the Register, or if you are told that they are out of date.
ShareGift Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation www.
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value If you do buy or sell shares through an unauthorised firm, you makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, or by Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Consider obtaining independent financial and professional Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation advice before you hand over any money.
If it sounds too good to On 28 July 1986, each RELX PLC ordinary share of 1 nominal value be true it probably is.
was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
On 2 May 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into two ordinary How to report a scam shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary shares of If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you 51 sharesof 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary shares of can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the 12.5p each held.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should Capital gains tax contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
The mid-market price of RELX PLCs 1 ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and share consolidation referred to above results in an equivalent mid-market 51 price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 14 116p nominal value.
Warning to shareholders unsolicited investment advice From time to time shareholders may receive unsolicited calls from fraudsters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams, sometimes known as boiler room scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
