140 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures The Directors Report is a requirement of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors and re-election of Directors TheUKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules Information on our Board of Directors and changes during 2015 can be LRs also require the Company to make other disclosures.
The Corporate found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 45.
The UK Governance Report for the year on pages 43 to 83 forms part of the Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code provides for all Directors Directors Report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the 2015 Annual Report are to stand for election or re-election each year and accordingly all Board cross-referenced where appropriate and taken together fulfil the members, with the exception of Peter Bamford, will seek re-election at the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the DTRs and the LRs.
Full biographical details of all current Directors are set out on pages 44 to 45.
The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements of the Company and the group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc the Directors interests in shares Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are shown on page 79.
During the year no Director had any The Company material interest in any contract of significance to the groups business.
Constitution Dividend Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales, Information on the final dividend payment for 2015 can be found in the withcompany number 5393279.
The Company is a holding company Strategic Report on page 31. with limited trading in its own right and with subsidiary undertakings in over 65 countries.
The material subsidiary undertakings are listed on Outlook for 2016 pages 129 to 130.
Information on the Company outlook for 2016 can be found in the Strategic Report on page 31.
Articles of association and Directors powers The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the Company Share capital and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the conduct of the The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary shares Board and general meetings.
Each ordinary share other than treasury Under the articles, the Directors are responsible for the management of shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to vote at a general the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the meeting of the Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles contain duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is present in specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one borrow money.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the articles have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
ofassociation and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another year at the AGM.
The articles do not contain special control rights or corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements which may restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
As at no requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds 24 February 2016 the shareholders shown in the Accountability to securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of shareholders section of the Corporate Governance Report on page 54 the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between had indicated that they had an interest in 3% or more of the Companys holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of issued share capital and were not subject to the 5% disclosure exemption securities or on voting rights.
under the Disclosure and Transparency Directive.
No other interests have The articles of association also give power to the Board to appoint and been disclosed to the Company in accordance with Disclosure and Listing replace Directors, but also require Directors to retire and submit Rule 5 either during the year or as at 24 February 2016. themselves for re-election at the first AGM following their appointment and Authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares of up to for re-election by rotation, although Directors now submit themselves for 181,694,373 shares was obtained at the AGM on 13 May 2015.
The articles themselves may be amended by special purchases of its shares were made by the Company during 2015.
The resolution of the shareholders.
authority is normally renewable annually and approval will be sought from In accordance with the articles of association, Directors can be appointed shareholders at the 2016 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
or removed by the Board or shareholders in general meeting.
Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for Amendments to the articles of association have to be approved by at least shares up to an aggregate value of 1,816,943 was obtained at the AGM 75% of the votes cast by those voting in person or by proxy are in favour on 13 May 2015.
The authority remains in force and approval will be of the resolution.
Subject to company law and the articles of association sought from shareholders at the 2016 AGM to renew the authority for a the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and may further year.
No shares were issued by the Company in 2015. delegate authority to Committees and day-to-day management and decision-making to individual Executive Directors.
The articles of association are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys website at www.
com Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 141 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures Change of control provisions Going concern There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the a change of control of the Company, such as some financial and group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the commercial agreements and employee long-term incentive or share plans.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to adopt None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further impact on the group as a whole.
A description of the groups debt funding details on the groups net debt, borrowing facilities and financial risk arrangements is set out in Note C2 to the financial statements which also management policies is provided in the C. Financing section of Notes to describe the change of control provisions relating to the groups Euro the Accounts on pages 116 to 128.
Key contracts Reporting, accountability and audit The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier relationships.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Post balance sheet events accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK company There are no post balance sheet events.
law requires that the Directors must not approve financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give the true and fair view of the state of Political donations affairs of the group.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are It is the Companys policy not to make payments to political organisations.
required to: apply the laws and regulations consistently, make judgements The Company does however maintain a shareholder authority to make and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, state the basis on which payments of a political nature but does so only in order to ensure that the they are prepared and prepare the financial statements on a going Company has authority from shareholders for the limited number of concern basis.
activities associated with the operation of the business which might be caught by the broad definition of payments of a political nature contained The Directors must keep adequate accounting records for the Parent within current legislation.
There were no payments to political organisations Company to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply during 2015 2014: nil.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonable to safeguard the assets of the Directors indemnity and insurance group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Information on the Directors indemnities can be found in the Corporate Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Governance Report on page 53.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Social, community, employment policies, gender diversity issues Report that comply with law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible Information on our colleagues, employment policies and community can for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report included on the Companys website.
The Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans introduction and Human rights Chief Executives Q&A provides an overview of the development and The Company supports the rights of all people as set out in the Universal performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31 December Declaration of Human Rights UDHR.
We acknowledge the responsibility 2015 and its position at the end of the year and covers the likely future of businesses to respect human rights, by acting with due diligence to developments in the business of the Company and the group.
For the avoid infringing on the rights of others and to address any adverse purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required impacts in which they are involved, in line with the UN Guiding Principles content can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, on Business and Human Rights.
These Human Rights Principles reinforce including material incorporated by reference.
the behaviours expected of our colleagues as set out in the Companys The independent auditors report on pages 84 to 86 includes a statement Code of Conduct.
by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors recognise Environment and Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions reporting that their responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable Information on our Environment and GHG reporting can be found in the assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 39. reports to regulators and information required to be presented by law.
Research and development Statement of the Directors as to the disclosure of information to Information on innovations can be found in the Strategic Report on the auditor pages22 to 25.
The Directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 2 of the Companies Related party transactions Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment of has taken all of the steps that should have been taken to ensure that they directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration are each aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to Report or as set out in Note D2 on page 128, there is no indebtedness establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
owed to or by the Company to any colleague or any other person considered to be a related party.
Financial risk management Details of financial risk management and the relevant policies are disclosed in Note C4 on pages 121 to 122 of the financial statements.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 142 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are set out on pages 44 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of to 45, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the prepare group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial b. the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable development and performance of the business and the position of the law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a in accordance with UK Accounting Standards including FRS 101 whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the state of affairs of the group and Parent Company and of their profit or shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and Parent Company model and strategy.
financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors Report on pages 43 to 83 and pages 140 to 142 and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41 were approved by a duly authorised make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Committee of the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by Daragh Fagan, the Company Secretary.
for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Daragh Fagan inappropriate to presume that the group and the Parent Company will Company Secretary continue in business.
24 February 2016 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Registered office: that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, Camberley, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Surrey GU17 9AB the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Registered in England and Wales No: 5393279 statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
