The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Future accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have financial statements of the Company for the year ended been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had 27 December 2015 comprise the Company and its any significant impact on the amounts reported in the financial subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
a Statement of compliance IFRS 11 Amended Accounting for Acquisitions The consolidated financial statements have been prepared of Interests in Joint Operations in accordance with International Financial Reporting IAS 19 Amended Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Standards IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the Contributions International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as IAS 16 Amended Clarification of Acceptable adopted by the European Union.
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation b Going concern basis IFRS 2010 2012 Cycle The consolidated financial statements have been prepared IFRS 2011 2013 Cycle on the going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational following Standards and Interpretations which have not been existence for the foreseeable future at the time of approving applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet the financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties effective: facing the Group and further comments on going concern are set out in the report of the Directors.
IFRS 9 Revised Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revised Revenue from Contracts c Basis of preparation with Customers The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of IFRS 14 Issued Regulatory Deferral Accounts 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
IFRS 16 Issued Leases IAS 12 Issued Recognition of Deferred Tax The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded Assets for Unrealised Losses to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the IAS 1 Issued Disclosure Initiative historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments IFRS 2012 2014 Cycle which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the and fair value less costs to sell.
Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future The preparation of financial statements in conformity with periods, except as noted below: IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosure and assumptions that affect the application of policies and of financial instruments reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the reported assets, based on historical experience and various other factors that liabilities and income statement of the Group.
However, are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the there will be no impact on the underlying cash flow of results of which form the basis of making the judgments about the business carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide these estimates.
a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
60 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 d Basis of consolidation Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at i Subsidiaries cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group or convertible are taken into account, regardless of does not currently hold any derivative financial instruments.
managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount consolidated financial statements from the date that control that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap commences until the date that control ceases.
at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap ii Associates counterparties.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and g Property, plant and equipment operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the see accounting policy l. date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of further of property, plant and equipment.
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks on behalf of an associate.
and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The owner-occupied properties excluding land element acquired iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised depreciation see below and impairment losses see gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for as to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised described in accounting policy s. losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of e Foreign currency property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the future economic benefits embodied with the item will the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas as an expense as incurred.
operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences Depreciation that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a are taken directly to reserves.
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated f Derivative financial instruments useful lives are as follows: The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising Freehold land Indefinite from operational, financing and investment activities.
In Freehold buildings 50 years accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
or 50 years, whichever However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting is lower are accounted for as trading instruments.
Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Computer equipment 3-5 years 61 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued h Intangible assets Goodwill For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, All business combinations are accounted for by applying the the recoverable amount is estimated annually.
Goodwill represents amounts arising loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between and are not subsequently reversed.
All goodwill stated on the the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net balance sheet relates to the acquisition of Blubeckers Limited identifiable assets acquired.
and Brunning and Price Limited and is included in the impairment analysis of the Pub restaurant business conducted The classification and accounting treatment of business at each balance sheet date.
combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS m Share-based payment transactions balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company and all options are equityGoodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
formally tested for impairment annually see accounting policy The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill period during which the employees become unconditionally is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is associate.
measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect acquisition are recognised directly in the income statement.
the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving i Trade and other receivables the threshold for vesting.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses see accounting policy l. n Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the j Stock Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of is material, provisions are determined by discounting the completion and selling expenses.
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, k Cash and cash equivalents where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and o Deferred and current tax form an integral part of the Groups cash management are Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred l Impairment tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed differences are differences between the carrying amount of annually to determine whether there is any indication of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences each cash generating unit CGU is compared to its estimated are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that value in use.
Value in use calculations are based on are enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet discounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
The discount rate used is the rate believed by the Board to reflect the risks associated with p Pensions each CGU.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income The Group makes contributions for eligible workers into statement.
defined contribution pension plans and these contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
62 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 q Onerous contracts u Commercial discount policy A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the Commercial discounts represent a reduction in cost of expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract goods and services in accordance with negotiated supplier are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations contracts, the majority of which are based on purchase under the contract.
Commercial discounts are recognised in the period in which they are earned and to the extent that any variable r Revenue targets have been achieved in that financial period.
Costs Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for associated with commercial discounts are recognised in the services and goods provided excluding value added tax period in which they are incurred.
and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
Where Critical accounting judgements and key sources of the Group operates a Concession unit under a franchise estimation and uncertainty agreement, it acts as principal in this trading arrangement.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies All revenue from franchise arrangements is recognised by the as described above, management has made a number of Group at the point of sale and licencing fees are recorded in judgements and estimations of which the following are the cost of sales as the goods are sold.
The Group does not act most significant: as a franchisor in any trading relationship.
a Impairment of property, plant and equipment s Expenses The Group formally determines whether property, plant and i Operating lease payments equipment are impaired by considering indicators of Payments made under operating leases are recognised in impairment annually.
This requires the Group to determine the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term the lowest level of assets which generate largely independent of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are cash flows cash generating units or CGU and to estimate the also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as value in use of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to a reduction in rental expense.
Cash generating units are deemed to be individual units or a cluster of units depending on the nature ii Finance lease payments of the trading environment in which they operate.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an The finance charge is allocated to each period during the estimate of the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The discount rate used in the year ended 27 December 2015 for all CGUs was based on the Groups iii Pre-opening expenses weighted average cost of capital of 8.1% year ended Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date 28 December 2014: 9.7% as the Directors believe there are of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Promotional and training costs are written off to the income statement in No impairment is required in the year ended 27 December 2015. the period in which they are incurred.
b Impairment of loan note due iv Borrowing costs The Group has an outstanding long-term receivable of 3.7m Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread over from BH Restaurants Limited.
As a result of a detailed the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are recognised trading review of the business, the Board has made full in the income statement in the period in which they are provision against the loan note due further details are incurred.
provided in note 12. t Dividend policy c Lease classification In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet The Group has over 400 leases and therefore their Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are classification as either finance or operating leases is critical to not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and the financial statements.
The accounting for leases involves are recognised in the financial statements when they have the exercise of judgement, particularly whether the leases received approval by shareholders.
meet the definition of an operating or a finance lease.
