56 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This remuneration policy received a binding vote from POLICY shareholders at the AGM 2014 and became effective at the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2014.
Any commitments, eg historical share awards, entered into prior to approval and implementation of the remuneration policy as detailed in this report will be honoured on their original terms.
Policy table executive directors fixed pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually taking Annual salary increases for executive The overall performance of the account of our remuneration policy, directors will not normally exceed individual is considered by the To attract and retain personal performance and the the average percentage increase Committee when reviewing salary.
high performing talent experience of the executive director.
awarded to other employees in the by setting base salaries Other factors considered are the United Kingdom.
Increases may be at rates comparable levels of base salary provided for the above this level: for example if there with what would be broader employee base, prevailing is an increase in the scope, scale, paid in an equivalent market and economic conditions, and market comparability or position elsewhere.
market data from companies of similar responsibility of the role.
market capitalisation and revenue to Rexam with consideration of industry sector relevance.
Benefits The Company provides private Set at a level which the Committee None.
healthcare insurance, permanent considers will provide a sufficient To provide competitive health insurance, a car benefit or cash level of benefit based on the role and cost effective equivalent, travel, accommodation and and individual circumstances, benefits to assist meals while on Company business.
The such as relocation, and which are executive directors policy allows us to provide any other comparable with benefits offered to carry out their benefits that are deemed to be an by companies of similar size duties effectively.
employment benefit by the relevant tax and complexity.
authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Such benefits may include relocation expenses and education allowances.
Retirement and other Executive directors who commenced UK Current executive directors receive a None.
related benefits based employment prior to 6 April 2011, pension entitlement equal to 1 30th of participate in the Rexam Pension Plan, their selected pensionable salary with To provide market a career average revalued earnings an optional cash supplement of 44% competitive retirement defined benefit plan the Plan.
Members of eligible base salary not pensioned.
and other related select a pensionable salary for the year In the event of death in service of a benefits.
and receive a salary supplement on member of the Plan with dependants, pension eligible base salary not an age related amount of between pensioned.
11 and 15 times salary is provided.
Executive directors who commence UK In the event of ill health and subject based employment after 6 April 2011 to meeting eligibility criteria a benefit are entitled to membership of a defined may be provided through the Plan in contribution pension arrangement.
accordance with the Plan rules.
A newly appointed executive director who is an internal recruit and already a member of the Plan is entitled to continue to participate in the Plan.
Executive directors who are newly recruited may opt for a retirement plan contribution of 25% of base salary, or alternatively elect for a cash supplement of 22% of base salary.
Death in service life cover of four times base salary and a Group income replacement plan, providing continuing income for two years at 50% of base salary after short term sickness benefit expires, with a lump sum of two times base salary payable on cessation of service if there is no return to work, is also provided.
