138 NOTES TO THE REXAM PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
No income statement is presented by Rexam PLC as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Rexam PLC has transitioned to FRS101 from previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented.
Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 22.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for 2015.
Rexam PLC has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS101.
a IFRS2 Share based Payment paragraphs 45 b and 46-52. b IFRS7 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
c IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement paragraphs 91 to 99. d The requirement in IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present information on management of capital.
e The requirement of IAS7 Statement of Cash Flows to present a cash flow statement f IAS8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors paragraphs 30 and 31. g The requirement of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to present disclosure of key management personnel compensation, and for related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
Rexam PLC has taken advantage of the amendments to FRS101 issued in July 2015 and has presented the Rexam PLC balance sheet in accordance with IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 balance sheets include a reclassification to present certain inter company loans as current rather than non current to better reflect the terms of the loan agreements.
The adjustments are reflected in the transition tables on pages 149 and 150.
Rexam PLC believes that this reclassification is not material to the financial statements taken as a whole.
Going concern For details of going concern see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Key estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Retirement benefits The financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
Rexam PLC has one defined benefit pension plan in the UK.
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
Rexam PLC uses estimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and the discount rate.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below.
Income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain.
Rexam PLC recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
Rexam PLC recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
We do not currently anticipate a significant risk of material adjustment to the outcomes referred to above over the next financial year.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
Foreign currencies All exchange differences arising on foreign currencies are taken to the income statement.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 139 Retirement benefit obligations Rexam PLC operates a funded defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan.
A funded defined benefit plan typically specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of a funded defined benefit plan is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are determined in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and administration expenses are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement.
Past service costs and credits are recognised immediately as an operating expense in the income statement.
The net interest cost is the change during the year in the pension asset or liability due to the passage of time and is recognised as an interest expense in the income statement.
The interest rate is based on the yield on high quality corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income for the year.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are made to a third party.
The contributions are recognised when they are due as an operating expense in the income statement.
Share based payment Rexam PLC operates equity and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Equity settled share options granted directly to subsidiary company employees are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary.
The capital contribution is measured by reference to the fair value of the share options and recognised as an increase in the cost of the investment with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and non-market performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All market and non-vesting conditions are included in the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised as an operating expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each balance sheet date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised as an operating expense in the income statement.
The Rexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC to satisfy future share option exercises, which are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings and all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Computer software 2 to 7 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost, less residual value of the assets, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Computer hardware 2 to 5 years Fixtures and fittings 4 to 10 years Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, bank and money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments generally with original maturities of three months or less.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Income taxes The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Provisions are established on the basis of amount expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders equity through other comprehensive income.
