138 NOTES TO THE REXAM PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
No income statement is presented by Rexam PLC as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Rexam PLC has transitioned to FRS101 from previously extant UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented.
Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 22.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for 2015.
Rexam PLC has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS101.
a IFRS2 Share based Payment paragraphs 45 b and 46-52. b IFRS7 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
c IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement paragraphs 91 to 99. d The requirement in IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present information on management of capital.
e The requirement of IAS7 Statement of Cash Flows to present a cash flow statement f IAS8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors paragraphs 30 and 31. g The requirement of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to present disclosure of key management personnel compensation, and for related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
Rexam PLC has taken advantage of the amendments to FRS101 issued in July 2015 and has presented the Rexam PLC balance sheet in accordance with IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 balance sheets include a reclassification to present certain inter company loans as current rather than non current to better reflect the terms of the loan agreements.
The adjustments are reflected in the transition tables on pages 149 and 150.
Rexam PLC believes that this reclassification is not material to the financial statements taken as a whole.
Going concern For details of going concern see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Key estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Retirement benefits The financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
Rexam PLC has one defined benefit pension plan in the UK.
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
Rexam PLC uses estimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and the discount rate.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below.
Income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain.
Rexam PLC recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
Rexam PLC recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
We do not currently anticipate a significant risk of material adjustment to the outcomes referred to above over the next financial year.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
Foreign currencies All exchange differences arising on foreign currencies are taken to the income statement.
