140 NOTES TO THE REXAM PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, Rexam PLC assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, Rexam PLC makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
When an asset is written down to its recoverable amount the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Should circumstances change which result in a reversal of a previous impairment, the value of the asset is increased and the reversal is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The increase in the carrying amount of the asset is limited to the amount which would have been recorded had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and immediately recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments used by Rexam PLC include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and aluminium, gas and diesel commodity contracts.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Up front fees paid on the establishment of facilities are initially capitalised as transaction costs of the facilities and amortised in interest over the expected term of the facilities.
Ongoing commitment fees are expensed in interest as incurred.
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other payables are measured at cost.
2 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND NUMBERS i Employee benefit expense 2015 2014 m m Employee costs including directors: Wages and salaries 21 17 Social security 3 3 Retirement benefits note 13 7 7 Share options note 19 3 6 34 33 For details of directors remuneration see the remuneration report.
ii Average number of employees 2015 2014 Number Number UK total 127 123
