58 POLICY CONTINUED Notes to the policy table Use of discretion The Committee will operate the annual incentive, deferred bonus plan, LTIP and, where relevant, the SAYE scheme, according to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, as to the operation and administration of these plans.
This includes, but is not limited to, the following: selecting participants: reviewing performance measures, their weighting and targets, from year to year: determining the timing of an annual incentive payment or share grant: deciding the amount of annual incentive or share awards, as well as the proportion of an award vesting or paying out, upwards or downwards, within the individual limits specified on page 57: deciding how to treat leavers, depending on their leaving circumstances, as detailed on pages 61 and 62: deciding the adjustments required in certain major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends or corporate restructurings: and taking the necessary decisions in the event of a change of control as detailed on page 62.
In exercising judgement and discretion, the Committee will ensure at all times that any adjustment will be made on a neutral basis, ie the intention of any adjustment will be that the event is not to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Adjustments due to underlying performance may be made in exceptional circumstances to ensure outcomes are fair both to shareholders and to participants.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration in the following years annual report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys SAYE and share incentive plans will be as permitted under relevant legislation, HMRC guidance and the Listing Rules.
Malus and clawback The Committee can cancel, reduce or impose further conditions in relation to the payment of annual incentives or the vesting of deferred, discretionary or performance awards.
The triggers for these malus adjustments include: the financial results or statements of the Company being misstated other than restatement due to a change in accounting policy or to rectify a minor error : management, shareholders or the market having been deliberately misled about the financial performance of the Company or if an individuals actions amounted to serious misconduct that resulted in the Group suffering a loss or reputational damage.
For the executive directors and any other selected individuals, the Committee can decide at any time within two years of the award payment or vesting date that an amount of value in cash or shares should be recovered clawed back from the individual or that subsisting awards or other proposed payments should be cancelled, reduced or have further conditions imposed.
The clawback triggers are broadly the same as for malus and include any exceptional adverse circumstance that the Committee believes justifies the operation of malus clawback.
In relation to the deferred bonus plan, awards will be forfeited in accordance with the remuneration policy in the event that a participant voluntarily terminates his employment and breaches restrictive covenants.
Remuneration policy for other employees The following differences exist between the policy set out above and the approach to the remuneration of employees generally: executive directors annual incentive measures are set at Group level other incentive plan participants are incentivised using a mix of sector and Group level measures: only executive directors are required to defer 25% of their annual incentive into Rexam shares: the LTIP, as described above, applies to executive directors, the executive leadership team and senior management.
Similar arrangements apply for all other participants although the performance measures and targets may vary: from time to time specific incentives may exist that relate to a specific sector or country, the terms of which are similar to other Group incentives: and clawback will apply to the executive directors and to any other employees by direction of the Committee.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Measures and weightings for the annual incentive are reviewed and selected annually by the Committee to align with the Companys strategic priorities for the year.
Targets are set by reference to both financial and non financial objectives: related profit and cash flow with threshold and maximum for cash determined by reference to profit, and personal performance measures see pages 64 and 65.
The measures used under the share incentive plans are selected annually and reflect the Groups main key performance indicators for the year see pages 20 and 21.
