18 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Rexam is built on a strong culture of operational 11x excellence.
It lies at the heart of our business and is a Unprecedented key element as we seek cost leadership and sustainable Shingo success Since adopting the Shingo value creation.
Through the application of continuous Model, we have been recognised improvement processes, we focus on delivering eleven times by The Shingo Institute with three bronze and six silver exceptional quality and customer service.
medallions and two Shingo Prizes.
GUATEMALA PLANT AWARDED ZERO LOSS PROGRAMME EXPANDED THE SHINGO PRIZE In 2013, we launched a zero loss initiative 50% Rexams joint venture with Envases focused on two pilot plants: Milton Keynes, Universales in Guatemala was awarded UK and Extrema, Brazil.
Both plants have seen Keeping our people safe The Shingo Institutes highest accolade a significant improvement in line performance Safety has always been at the in 2015, The Shingo Prize.
and a positive change in employee engagement.
heart of what we do at Rexam Following the success of the pilots, we started Each year, only one or two manufacturing and in 2015 we saw the number in 2015 to roll out a zero loss programme to of life changing incidents reduce plants globally are recognised with this level a number of plants across our business.
of award, an achievement that The Shingo substantially by 50%.
Institute describe as joining a distinguished Zero loss eliminates wasteful, costly and and elite group of recipients committed to unsafe process losses.
By losses we mean any achieving operational excellence.
accident or injury, any scheduled or unscheduled stoppages of our critical machines, and any Rexam has been competing for the defective product caused by a failure of the Shingo Prize since 2011 and has achieved process.
Zero loss uses proven Total Productive unprecedented success.
We have to date Maintenance TPM methodology.
Based on been awarded three bronze medallions, the robust analysis of process data, small 22m six silver medallions and two Shingo Prizes.
crossfunctional project teams, called In addition to the plant in Guatemala, our Unrelenting focus on cost improvement teams, work together plant in Jacarei, Brazil, was also awarded In 2015, the many value stream to identify the problem and understand a silver medallion in 2015. activities implemented across the biggest loss or, in zero loss terms, our business delivered 22m the biggest opportunity.
in savings, maintaining our Zero loss is an important factor in excellent record in this area.
helping us realise our core value of continuous improvement.
