50 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED During 2015, the audit and risk committee reviewed the effectiveness PwC has also provided global tax advisory services during the year.
and independence of the external auditors and after confirming the Other audit firms were engaged to provide expatriate and specialist effectiveness of PwC, recommended to the board that PwC be tax advisory services as well as to advise on business disposals.
The effectiveness review in 2015 was fees for non audit services are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated conducted by the director internal audit surveying both sector and financial statements.
business management following the 2014 year end audit.
A report In 2015, a review of all fees paid for services delivered to the Group was presented to the committee, focusing on a number of areas by the main audit firms was undertaken by the director internal audit.
including audit scope, delivery and audit team.
A further review of PwCs effectiveness will be undertaken in 2016 following completion DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST of the 2015 audit.
The audit and risk committee will continue to keep The board has a formal system in place for directors to review under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
regularly their interests and to deal with situations where a director Non audit services are provided by PwC to the Group only in reports any conflicts of interest.
Any conflict situation reported to the chairman and the company secretary is considered by the board based accordance with Rexams policy on the provision of such services, which assesses the type of service to be provided and the associated fees.
Any authorisations given to a director who has a conflict situation are recorded in the board minutes and in a register Any request for non audit services above a fee threshold of 25,000 is presented to the finance director, or in his absence, a senior member of directors conflicts which is reviewed annually by the board.
No conflict situations were reported to the board during 2015 and up to the date of the Group finance team, for approval prior to commencement of the work.
The finance director, or in his absence, a senior member of this annual report.
Stuart Chambers has confirmed to the board that his appointment to the Hearings Committee of The Panel on Takeovers of the Group finance team, will also obtain the prior authorisation of the chairman of the audit and risk committee for services deemed and Mergers, with effect from 30 April 2016, will not conflict with him discharging his responsibilities as chairman at Rexam.
restricted above a threshold of 50,000 and above 150,000 for services deemed unrestricted.
PwC are prohibited from providing TAX MANAGEMENT services to the Group that would be considered to jeopardise their independence, such as financial systems design and implementation, Our businesses pay a number of different taxes to local and national governments.
These include corporate taxes on profits, employment actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing and investment services.
The policy on non audit services is reviewed annually to ensure it taxes, property taxes, customs duties and withholding taxes.
In addition our businesses administer on behalf of taxing authorities the collection of continues to be in line with best practice.
sales taxes charged to our customers and taxes paid by our employees.
The audit and risk committee biannually reviews the level of non audit We take our responsibilities seriously and the management of our tax fees to ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair affairs is aligned with the Groups wider business practices and our PwCs independence or objectivity.
In recent years the level of non audit commitment to corporate responsibility.
In particular the Group seeks fees has reflected the transactional nature of the Companys activities to adopt the following principles in its management of its tax position: as it disposed of certain of its businesses to focus on being a global compliance with and reasonable interpretation of tax laws: paying the beverage can manufacturer.
During 2015 the level of non audit fees right amount of tax at the right time: a constructive relationship with provided by our auditor is higher than usual as a result of the ongoing tax authorities: alignment of planning with our commercial operations Ball offer.
The additional work relates primarily to non statutory audit and the needs of our businesses: and delivering shareholder value procedures required in relation to both annual and quarterly reporting while protecting the Groups reputation.
for US GAAP purposes, carve out accounting for the divestment of operations as part of the remedies package to obtain regulatory CODE OF CONDUCT approval, and other assurance workstreams directly related to the A Code of Conduct, which applies to all Company employees transaction, all of which are typically performed by a companys auditor.
worldwide, has been approved by the board and provides a clear The cost of such services amount, in total, to 3.4m as shown in note 5 statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with, or impacted by, to the consolidated financial statements.
Following discussion with Rexams activities.
It is communicated through an induction process for management and consideration by the audit and risk committee new employees, as part of the team briefings in the Groups businesses regarding the scope of work and the suitability of PwC to carry out and on the Groups intranet and website.
The board is kept informed that work, the audit and risk committee concluded and approved that regarding the maintenance of the Code of Conduct which will include it was in the interests of the Company to purchase these additional giving consideration to the disclosures that will be required in respect services from the external auditor to leverage PwCs existing knowledge of human trafficking and slavery introduced by the Modern Slavery of the Group, and provide added proficiency and a more immediate Act 2015.
Any breaches of the Code of Conduct are reported to the time and cost efficiency.
To safeguard auditor objectivity and board.
The content of the Code of Conduct captures the key compliance independence, separate PwC teams independent of the audit team messages that are relevant for all employees, whether working in the are engaged to lead on workstreams that are not audit or review manufacturing plants or in office based locations.
related, and management remains responsible for all key decisions and judgments in respect of the work PwC is engaged to perform.
