STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Notes to the 2015 financial statements Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38.
The amendments provide 1 Principal accounting policies clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation.
Corporate information Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle.
Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
The amendments deal minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt, iron ore, thermal and with the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
Activities span the world and are Mandatory for 2017 not yet endorsed by the EU strongly represented in Australia and North America, with significant Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
These amendments on the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses clarify how to account for deferred tax assets Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
Exchange and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office is at IAS 7 Statement of cash flows, Narrow-scope amendments.
The 6 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4AD, UK.
Rio Tinto Limiteds amendments introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users of registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000. financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective Mandatory for 2018 not yet endorsed by the EU subsidiaries together the Group and include the Groups share of joint IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The core principle of arrangements and associates as explained in note 1 b below.
The IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were promised goods or services when control of the goods or services passes authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on to customers.
The amount of revenue recognised should reflect the 2 March 2016. consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
A modified transitional approach is permitted Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Groups subsidiaries, under which a transitional adjustment is recognised in retained earnings joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on at the date of implementation of the standard without adjustment of the Groups other related-party transactions.
The new standard will only be applied to contracts that are not completed at that date.
Basis of preparation of the financial statements IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The standard includes a single approach The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing for the classification of financial assets, based on cash flow the Groups 2015 financial statements are set out below.
Itintroducesanew The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in model for the recognition of impairment losses, the expected credit accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies losses model, which requires expected losses to be recognised when reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards and in financial instruments are first recognised.
The standard amends the accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as rules on hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with the amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission risk management practices of an entity.
Order dated 14 December 2015 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation and also with: Mandatory for 2019 not yet endorsed by the EU IFRS 16 Leases.
Under the new standard, a lessee is in essence International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the required to: International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee a recognise all lease assets and liabilities including those currently IFRS IC both as adopted by the European Union EU and which classed as operating leases on the balance sheet, initially are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2015: and measured at the present value of unavoidable lease payments: International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB b recognise amortisation of lease assets and interest on lease and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which are liabilities in the income statement over the lease term: and mandatory as at 31 December 2015. c separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion presented within financing activities and interest which The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively companies can choose to present within operating or financing .
 activities consistent with presentation of any other interest paid other amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued in the cash flow statement.
but are not yet mandatory.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the above The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis of pronouncements which may have an impact on the Groups earnings or accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial shareholders funds in future years.
The most significant impact is likely statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 except for the to be from IFRS 16.
Information on the undiscounted amount of the implementation of a number of minor amendments issued by the IASB Groups operating lease commitments at 31 December 2015 under and endorsed by the EU which applied for the first time in 2015.
These IAS 17, the current leases standard, is disclosed in note 31.
Under new pronouncements do not have a significant impact on the accounting IFRS 16, the present value of these commitments would be shown as a policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group liability on the balance sheet together with an asset representing the and therefore prior-period financial statements have not been restated right of use.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not estimation uncertainty mandatory for 2015.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in Mandatory for 2016 applying accounting policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
Endorsed by the EU Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on Initiative.
The amendment provides clarification of guidance in IAS 1 on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
materially from the amounts included in the financial statements.
com 113 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued areas of judgment and estimation uncertainty are highlighted below and b Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 further information is contained in the accounting policies and or the All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on notes to the financial statements.
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, recognised in the financial statements are: liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either of the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies Companies.
Control exists where either of the Companies has: power DLC structure see Dual listed companies structure on page 112 : over the entities, that is existing rights that give it the current ability to Acquisitions note 1 b and note 37: direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6, note 12 involvement with the entities: and the ability to use its power to affect and note 13: those returns.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which  e and i : control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates date that control ceases.
note 1 j : Joint arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which Provision for onerous contracts note 1 i two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 1 k : agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the relevant activities Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h : of the arrangement those that significantly affect the Companies Uncertain tax positions note 1 m and note 31: returns require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in The Group has two types of joint arrangement: acquisitionsnote1 m : Joint operations JO : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the e and f : liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, Identification of functional currencies note 1 d : rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its Basis of consolidation note 1 b and note 42: interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: Contingenciesnote31:and revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any Post-retirement cost assumptions note 1 n and note 45. revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO: and its share of expenses.
These are incorporated into the Groups financial statements Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of under the appropriate headings.
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and Joint ventures JV : A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that liabilities within the next financial year are: share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
JVs Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
and the recoverability of goodwill note1 e and i, note 6, Associates: note 12 and note 13: joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
 e and i : Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither control Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, note 1 j : unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Significant Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the  k andnote26: voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Investments in associates Estimation of obligations for post-retirement costs note 1 n and are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
note 45: Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, The Group uses the term equity accounted units EAUs to refer to e and f : associates and JVs collectively.
For all EAUs, the carrying value will Contingenciesnote31:and include any long-term loans to the EAUs that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Under the equity accounting method the Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f. investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the accounting policies and estimates on page 122. investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
When a Accounting convention the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in The financial information included in the financial statements for the year the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not ended 31 December 2015, and for the related comparative periods, has recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the Acquisitions note 37 impact of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations.
The Groups the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at the date of are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise stated.
acquisition, which is the date on which control is obtained.
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary present them on the same basis as current period figures.
comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred 114 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS ,  c Sales revenue liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and any Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts.
All equity interests issued by the Group.
Costs related to the acquisition of a shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any forfreight.
, amountsbilledto non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of recognised as those services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any shortfall is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within , wheretheyarein 12 months of the acquisition date.
substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that are present ownership Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are  included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue, incidental to the main net assets in the event of liquidation, are recognised by the Group in one revenue-generating activities of the operations, and which is a of two ways with the choice being available on an  of producing and selling the main products, is treated as a acquisition basis.
They can be measured at either the non-controlling credit to operating costs.
interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill see note e and smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is the basis used.
net of treatment and refining charges.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost following criteria are met:  the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
been transferred to the buyer: Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, share of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of has been retained: such purchases is included within Financing activities in the cash the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: flow statement.
it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the flow to the Group: and consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Disposals note 37 Individual non-current assets or disposal groups that is, groups of In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is assets and liabilities to be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically transaction are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the metattheperiodend: customers premises.
the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which transaction rather than through continuing use: and vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present spot market.
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales: and Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either the sale is highly probable.
monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at for the period, based on the best available information at the period end.
the fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best impairment.
estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated Certain products are provisionally priced, that is, the selling price is and, if applicable, equity accounting ceases.
subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
The final price is based on remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is or financial asset depending on the facts.
Certain amounts previously recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity receivable based on relevant forward market prices.
At each reporting disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the ceased, may be recycled to the income statement in proportion to the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
The cash proceeds of disposals are included within For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
products, suchascopper,  in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss traded commodity market, such as the London Metals Exchange, and the of control are accounted for in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which are included within Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
it is traded on that market.
com 115 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally priced examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or sales contracts is included in note 30. compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with d Currency translation economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or environment in which that entity operates.
For many entities, this is the other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary commercially viable, that is the project will provide a satisfactory return assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that at year-end exchange rates.
The Groups accounting policies for future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed more detail in note 1 p iii.
for impairment twice a year by management.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group which presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business have arisen through acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income consideration may result in undeveloped properties being recognised at statement items for each entity are translated from the functional an earlier stage of project evaluation compared with organic projects.
currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date.
Groups intentions to recover value through development, sale or other Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period-end partnering arrangements.
Subsequent expenditure on acquired exchange rates.
undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of confidence threshold discussed above.
entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
These translation orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income, with the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
output when existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
, insubstance, partoftheGroupsnet g Property, plant and equipment note 14 investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as taken to the currency translation reserve.
commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in Except as noted above, or in note 1 p below relating to derivative progress is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
Ore income statement in the year in which they arise.
reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may evaluation expenditure notes 12 and 13 continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Investments in EAUs, including any goodwill, are tested for Costs of evaluation of a smelter or refinery prior to approval to develop impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been are capitalised under Capital works in progress, provided that there is a identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i. high degree of confidence that the project will be deemed to be commercially viable.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate note 1 i. payable on project-specific debt if applicable or at the Groups cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities that , are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms or restoration costs associated with the asset.
evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of h Deferred stripping note 14 the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials f Exploration and evaluation note 13 is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of attributable to: the cost of construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently researching and analysing existing exploration data: amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: subsequent pits are relatively large.
If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather it must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future than from a single orebody.
accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access to the orebody: and If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly it must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits which access has been improved: and combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation for the it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the purposes of accounting for initial stripping costs.
 A component is a specific section of the orebody that is made more each case.
accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the larger orebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases for example, a pushback.
within Property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping :theextractionof costs is included in Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity extracted in future periods.
When the cost of stripping which has a future accounted units, as appropriate.
benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to each of these activities i Depreciation and impairment notes 13 and 14 based on a relevant production measure using a life-of-component strip Depreciation of non-current assets ratio.
The ratio divides the tonnage of waste mined for the component for Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and the quantity of minerals contained in the ore mined for the component.
some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often allocating costs, particularly where there are significant by-products.
dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is Stripping costs for the component are deferred to the extent that the the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, current period ratio exceeds the life of component ratio.
The stripping concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally activity asset is depreciated on a units of production basis based on based on the expected life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of turn, .
Wherethe the component unless another method is more appropriate.
major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life The life-of-component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual mine plan: remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
Factors affecting the they are a function of the mine design and therefore changes to that remaining service potential of smelters include, for example, smelter design will generally result in changes to the ratios.
Changes in other technology and electricity purchase contracts when power is not technical or economic parameters that impact the ore reserves and for sourced from the companys, or in some cases a local governments, some mines, other mineral resources may also have an impact on the electricity generating capacity.
life-of-component ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
assets are reviewed annually and changes are reflected prospectively.
It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of .
Whereapplicable, theGroupconsiders production and or straight-line basis as follows: .
Generally,  stripping activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life-ofUnits of production basis component ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, extracted from the originally identified component.
consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to production.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate units of production basis.
operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of expected production in current and future periods based on ore reserves the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Other mineral resources stripping ie overburden and other waste removal of the second and may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping.
and where there is a high degree of confidence that they can be extracted economically.
This would be the case when the other mineral The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the circumstances.
responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historical the individual pits being accounted for separately: reserve conversion rates.
If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted Other mineral resources would usually only be included in unit of consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
production calculations where there are very large areas of contiguous If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning industrial minerals deposits.
The required level of confidence is unlikely and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore compared than as an integrated unit.
with the above, such as copper or gold.
In these cases, specific areas of 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 117 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by economic status can be predicted with confidence.
reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit current and future mines, then the measured and indicated resources in an orderly transaction between market participants at the may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where measurement date.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow there is a high degree of confidence that they will be brought into techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The quantum of mineral resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on however, does not take into account future development costs for mines detailed life-of-mine and or long-term production plans.
The latter may which are not yet in production.
Measured and indicated resources are include brownfield expansions which have not yet been approved at the currently incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Groups appropriate authorisation level in the Group.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on managements Straight-line basis best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the Assets within operations for which production is not expected to future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical and environmental costs.
For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
market participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium Impairment charges reversals of non-current assets term.
In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cashconstant where appropriate: as it is considered unlikely that a market generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of  assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently qualify .
 for inclusion in ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included intermediate products is also monitored and separate cash-generating when there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This units are identified even if the majority of those products are further expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of processed internally and therefore the cash flows are not independent.
areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore reserves.
Impairment of financial assets is discussed in note 1 p below.
Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserve status for In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring with independent cash-generating streams which constitute separate evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal production plan for the cash-generating unit.
This differs from value in management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its business combination.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet current condition and therefore does not include future cash flows ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in calculations and therefore generally result in a higher value.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount current life of mine and or long-term production plans, which are based may not be recoverable.
The Group conducts an internal review of the on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the asset values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The information to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, such as including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors, are metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication exists plan and or long-term production plans are therefore the basis for then an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cashgenerally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which assume generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs of short-term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the disposal FVLCD.
long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is measured commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested.
TheGroupdoes Group considers that the best evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices provide from an active market or binding sale agreement and, in this case, the a good indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1. influenced by spot prices.
The price forecasts used for ore reserve When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but estimation are generally consistent with those used for impairment adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the testing unless management deems that in certain economic recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
No environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tintos view on 118 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS prices, in which case management estimates the assumptions that a k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 market participant would be expected to use.
The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
These provisions are based on all regulatory The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders.
Closure estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time provisions are not made for those operations that have no known value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted This applies primarily to certain North American smelters which have water average cost of capital is generally used as a starting point for rights or power agreements with local governments.
determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Groups weighted , theGroups averagecostofcapital, areused.
 businesses estimate their costs using current restoration standards finance, the debt component of the weighted average cost of capital may and techniques.
be calculated by reference to the specific interest rate of the project finance and anticipated leverage of the project.
Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the based on the net present value of the estimated future costs of impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
In restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts of exchange rates take into account closure.
Where appropriate, the provision is estimated using probability spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are kept weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios.
The constant in real terms from 2020 onwards.
The great majority of the obligation may occur during development or during the production phase Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Management additional obligations which are expected to arise from future considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the and are reviewed six monthly during the life of the operation to reflect value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and known developments.
The estimates are also subject to formal review Canadian dollar, and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are at regular intervals.
not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating value in The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within use, the present value of future cash flows in foreign currencies is Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the closetranslated at the spot exchange rate on the testing date.
down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, including those Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered impairment resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities are reviewed using the same basis for valuation of such assets as qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, changes to the explained above whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities that the impairment loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased.
If and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised.
The carrying plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of amount of the cash-generating unit after reversal must be the lower of .
 a the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and b the carrying closed operations are charged credited to Net operating costs in the amount that would have been determined net of amortisation or income statement.
depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the cashWhere rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the generating unit in prior periods.
operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the .
unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
However, no the provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting provision is required provided that the related assets, which may be the period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within Finance items wider cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are not in the income statement.
Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a j Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance value of such costs at the balance sheet date.
These costs are charged to with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Net operating costs, except for the unwinding of the discount which is Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 the JORC code, which shown within Finance items.
is produced by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and become known, but can continue for many years depending on the impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of closenature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
The depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in which mineral l Inventories note 16 resources are taken into account for accounting purposes.
In addition, value Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, may be attributed to mineral resources in purchase price allocations primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated undertaken for the purposes of business combination accounting.
by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw materials and 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 119 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued consumable stores is the purchase price.
The cost of partly-processed stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at the net , including: present value of the obligations.
Valuations of the obligations are carried out using the projected unit labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the allowance where appropriate for future increases to pay and pensions.
production of alumina and aluminium:  the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, of independent qualified actuaries.
plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any the production of alumina and aluminium: and curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement.
interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the income statement in material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is respect of these plans are included within Net operating costs or in available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to if Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
and when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited or charged to mined.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
In particular, the difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the m Taxation note 9 and note 17 statement of comprehensive income.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to enacted at the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
o Cash and cash equivalents Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents establishes provisions based on the Groups judgment of the probable comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and short-term, amount of the liability, or recovery.
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12.
The Group provides Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in the balance sheet.
for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset p Financial instruments note 30 and its income tax base which may be US$nil.
Even when there is no i Financial assets income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax Classification purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the deferred The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair tax provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity: and because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered available-for-sale investments.
The classification depends on the primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30.
Generally, n Post-employment benefits note 45 the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide the short term.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts, these lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
For transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and post-retirement defined benefit plans, the difference between the fair liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
value of any plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
 a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss assets in orderly transactions between market participants at the Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host measurement date.
Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be contracts, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be contributions.
In determining the extent to which a refund will be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
available the Group has considered whether any third party, such as a trustee or pension committee, has the power to enhance benefits or to b Loans and receivables wind up a pension plan without the Groups consent.
Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans receivables are included within this category: however, trade receivables are the discount rate, the inflation assumption and the mortality subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales assumptions.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present revenue.
value of the obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on c Held-to-maturity high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with of the post-retirement obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on the intention and ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as government bonds is used.
The inflation assumption is used to project loans and receivables.
Assets in this category are classified as Other increases in future benefit payments for those plans that have benefits investments and are classified as current assets or non-current assets linked to inflation.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future based on their maturity.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS d Available-for-sale redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that to maturity using the effective interest method.
are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The sheet date or the asset matures within 12 months.
carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
Recognition and measurement Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the tradelender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is asset.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive cash treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value iii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, with Derivatives embedded in host contracts are treated as separate transaction costs expensed in the income statement, and are derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-totheir host contracts.
In some cases, derivatives and embedded maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus derivatives may be designated as hedges.
transactions costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in  the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured to fair value transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at each balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on derivatives which are not at the measurement date.
Where relevant market prices are available, designated as hedges are taken to the income statement.
The method of these are used to determine fair values, adjusted where necessary for recognising the resulting gain or loss for derivatives designated as market liquidity, bid offer spreads and credit considerations.
In other hedging instruments depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
cases, fair values are calculated using quotations from independent The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value general market practice applicable to the instrument.
hedges : or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges.
and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
The fair designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset are disclosed in note 30.
Movements on the hedging reserve are or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or Offsetting financial instruments when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately when the realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to is impaired.
If impairment is identified for a financial asset carried at the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income amortised cost, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income the use of an allowance account and the loss is recognised in the statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for income statement.
example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
When In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant or a non-financial asset, for example, property, plant and equipment, the prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised environment in which the issuing company operates.
If such evidence subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, amortised or sold.
measured as the difference between acquisition cost less any When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, and flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the current fair value is removed from equity and recognised in the the forecast transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or income statement.
loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time ii Financial liabilities remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement at the same Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but time as the forecast transaction.
When a forecast transaction is no longer excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that is held in equity is transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
immediately recognised in the income statement.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 121 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued q Share-based payments note 44 loss and consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under IFRS as defined on page 113 that would be required under the version of The fair value of the Groups share plans is recognised as an expense International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements,  The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated business performance.
using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the ii Acquisitions note 37 date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions The determination of the fair values of net identifiable assets acquired, attached to the award.
Non-market based vesting conditions for and of any goodwill, involves significant judgment.
This is particularly the example, earnings per share targets are taken into account in case when the acquisition involves little or no cash, for example when the estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the Group gains control of a company in stages or by the issuance of shares.
number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date The allocation of fair value between intangible assets, and the tangible uptothevestingdate,  assets with which they are used, is also judgmental.
The Group engages the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date third-party valuers to advise on the purchase price allocation for even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to iii Impairment review of asset carrying values notes 6, 12 and 13 determine whether they should be accounted for as equity or cash Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant settled.
impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the Estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions and the cost to directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
This is not complete asset construction are critical to determining the recoverable standard practice.
In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cashamounts for cash-generating units.
settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws Where the recoverable amounts of the Groups cash-generating units are and regulations.
The value of these awards is immaterial.
assessed using analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of valuations are also sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on commodity prices, production timing and recovery rates, exchange rates, market, or the use of shares held in treasury which were previously operating costs, reserve estimates, closure costs and discount rates.
acquired as part of a share buy-back.
If the cost of shares acquired to Note 6 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the difference is measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 outline taken to retained earnings or other reserves, as appropriate.
judgments in relation to the testing of cash-generating units containing r Share capital notes 27 and 28 goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets respectively.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly iv Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a mineral resource estimates deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directlybe expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups attributable incremental costs and the related income tax effects, is investment intentions.
included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on s Segment reporting notes 2 and 3 information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the withtheJORCcode seenote1 j.  internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and resources, determined under the JORC code.
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires Rio Tintos chief executive.
judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an Critical accounting policies and estimates appropriate mining method and establish an extraction schedule.
It i Dual listed companies reporting also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates and, in some of financial statements, for the purposes of preparing the IFRS instances, the renewal of mining licences.
There are many uncertainties compliant consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group, both in the estimation process and assumptions that are valid at the time the DLC companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, are a single of estimation may change significantly when new information company, and the interests of shareholders of both companies are becomes available.
presented as the equity interests of shareholders in the reporting entity.
New geological data, as well as changes in assumptions, may change ore The 2015 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to reserve and mineral resource estimates and may ultimately result in prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as theirrestatement.
, insomecases, mineral amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and resources, could have an impact on: depreciation and amortisation rates: Investments Commission on 14 December 2015.
The 2015 financial , plantand statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the Groups equipment: deferred stripping calculations: provisions for close-down consolidated profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive income and restoration costs: and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS v Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 vii Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs acquisitions when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining different remediation and closure scenarios.
The ultimate cost of closerightsthat, ingeneral, .
down and restoration is uncertain, and management uses its judgment Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations.
value of the asset and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including: changes gains tax purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the to the relevant legal or local national government ownership deferred tax liability for the assets, unless they are classified as held for requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders: review sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered of remediation and relinquishment options: the emergence of new primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
For restoration techniques and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration, acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed although elements of the restoration and rehabilitation of each site are to goodwill.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax relatively unique to the site and, in some cases, there may be relatively was recognised in equity on transition to IFRS.
limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent against which to benchmark cost estimates.
External experts support the viii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development cost estimation process where appropriate.
costs prior to the decision to mine construct note 13 Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation and capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high generally must comply with the Groups Capital Project Framework once degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is the operation is ten years from expected closure.
The expected timing of commercially viable and it is therefore considered probable that future expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in economic benefits will flow to the Group.
response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and mineral resources, production rates, operating licences or economic conditions.
A projects commercial viability is determined based on whether it will Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks.
Once extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
In such cases, the appropriate authorisation level that is, the Rio Tinto Investment provision for these ongoing costs may be restricted to a period for which Committee, and the board where appropriate whether the project the costs can be reliably estimated.
In determining whether to approve a mining project, the Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection analyses of the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free for the key assumptions.
discount rate used for such close-down, restoration and environmental obligations requires judgment.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to proceed As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant is granted.
In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised if there is adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is environmental costs which would affect future financial results.
The Groups view is that a high degree of confidence and decreases in environmental obligations and increases in close-down is greater than more likely than not that is, greater than 50 per cent and restoration provisons for closed operations are charged or credited certainty and less than virtually certain that is, less than 90 per cent directly to the income statement.
Increases and decreases in close-down certainty.
Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that obligations for operating businesses are accounted for as indicated in note the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially 1 k above.
An increase in capitalised close-down and restoration viable requires a significant degree of judgment and assessment of all provisions would increase the unwind of the discount as for all provisions relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the and depreciation charges in the income statement in future years and projects current stage: project timeline: current estimates of the increase the carrying value of property, plant and equipment, potentially projects net present value, including sensitivity analyses for the key impacting any future impairment charges or reversals.
assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
Development vi Deferral of stripping costs note 14 expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable.
mine and of life of component strip ratios is dependent on an individual In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral mines design.
Changes to that design may introduce new components Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are and or change the life of component strip ratios.
Changes in other applied consistently from period to period.
technical or economic parameters that impact ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component strip ratios, even if they do not Subsequent recovery of the carrying value for evaluation costs depends affect the mines design.
Changes to the life of component strip ratios, on successful development, sale or other partnering arrangements of the are accounted for prospectively.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered provisions are charged to the income statement.
separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and, ix Identification of functional currencies therefore, the amortisation base for those costs.
The judgment depends The functional currency for each subsidiary, joint operation and equity on each mines specific circumstances and the analysis requires accounted unit, is the currency of the primary economic environment in judgment: another mining company could make a different judgment which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
significant judgment and other companies may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its businesses if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events or conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
com 123 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a consequence, expected circumstances, the expected impact of post-retirement costs the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It on the Groups net earnings in 2016 would be US$95 million more than also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income in 2015.
The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot statement and in equity.
be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits, number of employees and exchange rates.
x Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 45 The value of the Groups obligations for post-retirement benefits is  dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to loss after tax and non-controlling interests that would result from the balance sheet date.
This amount will vary depending on the hypothetical changes to post-retirement assumptions and estimates.
 The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation, although a of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
to some form of inflation protection, the number of individuals and how The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net long individuals live in retirement.
Most of the Groups defined benefit earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the balance sheet, and this is shown in note 45. obligations relate to former employees.
As a consequence, the carrying US$ million  Sensitivity of the Groups 2015 underlying earnings assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions and net losses to changes in: regarding future inflation.
The assumption regarding future inflation is Discount rate based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, Increase of 0.5 percentage points 36 combined with consensus views on future inflation, and is derived using Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 31 the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the assumption Inflation therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future inflation.
Increase of 0.5 percentage points 24 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 23 The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major Salary increases pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current Increase of 0.5 percentage points 7 mortality assumptions.
It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each relevant Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 6 country.
Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements The discount rate used to value post-retirement obligations is based Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of  individuals who are one year older 15 and which have durations consistent with the nature of the obligations.
Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with individuals who are one year younger 15 movements in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement date .
Thisrateisalsousedto xi Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 calculate the interest cost on obligations and interest income on plan The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, assets.
mainly in Australian, Canadian, French, UK, and US taxable entities that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in probable, having regard to the availability of sufficient taxable temporary the assumptions are set out in note 45. differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable For 2015, the charge against income for post-retirement benefits net of entity, the projected future taxable income of these taxable entities and tax and non-controlling interests was US$266 million.
This charge after taking account of specific risk factors that are expected to affect the included both pension and post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The recovery of these assets.
charge is net of interest income of US$371 million after tax and nonxii Contingencies note 31 controlling interests.
Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility The weighted average future increase in compensation levels was of any loss arising is considered remote.
assumed to be 3.3 per cent in 2015 and will be 3.2 per cent for 2016. xiii Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 The average discount rate used was 3.5 per cent in 2015 and will be Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has 3.7 per cent in 2016 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
bond yields in the currencies in which the Group has pension obligations.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2 Operating segments 2015 2014 2013 a Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 15,305 23,281 25,994 Aluminium 10,117 12,123 12,463 Copper & Coal 7,705 9,957 10,434 Diamonds & Minerals 3,674 4,783 5,129 Other Operations 13 241 1,761 Reportable segments total 36,814 50,385 55,781 Inter-segment transactions 29 344 1,182 Product group total 36,785 50,041 54,599 Items excluded from underlying earnings 1 24 Gross sales revenue 36,784 50,041 54,575 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 1,955 2,377 3,404 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 34,829 47,664 51,171 b Depreciation and amortisation Iron Ore 1,906 1,953 1,627 Aluminium 1,172 1,180 1,151 Copper & Coal 1,441 1,464 1,476 Diamonds & Minerals 488 619 765 Other Operations 32 34 67 Reportable segments total 5,039 5,250 5,086 Other items 68 82 106 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 462 472 401 Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,645 4,860 4,791 c Underlying earnings Iron Ore 3,952 8,107 9,858 Aluminium 1,118 1,248 557 Copper & Coal 274 831 965 Diamonds & Minerals 189 269 237 Other Operations 88 240 279 Reportable segments total 5,445 10,215 11,338 Inter-segment transactions 4 Other items 375 593 730 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 141 156 145 Net finance costs 389 161 242 Underlying earnings 4,540 9,305 10,217 d Items excluded from underlying earnings 5,406 2,778 6,552 Net loss earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 866 6,527 3,665 Tax charge Iron Ore 1,757 3,698 5,290 Aluminium 303 303 18 Copper & Coal 96 98 296 Diamonds & Minerals 131 135 131 Other Operations 73 135 229 Reportable segments total 2,022 4,099 5,470 Other items 192 193 302 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 25 34 23 Net finance costs 245 396 77 1,560 3,476 5,068 d Tax credit excluded from underlying earnings 567 423 2,642 Tax charge per income statement 993 3,053 2,426 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 125 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued 2015 2014 2013 Capital expenditure US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 1,726 4,211 6,814 Aluminium 1,682 2,021 2,226 Copper & Coal 1,564 2,128 3,392 Diamonds & Minerals 446 562 1,162 Other Operations 36 56 278 Reportable segments total 5,382 8,866 13,872 Other items 65 416 145 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 859 1,032 1,073 Capital expenditure per financial information by business units 4,588 7,418 12,944 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 97 744 57 Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 4,685 8,162 13,001 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product The measure of underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of groups in the table above together with the global functions that support Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the earnings and net loss earnings both represent amounts net of tax chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded performance of each product group based on a number of measures, from net loss earnings in arriving at underlying earnings in each period including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying irrespective of materiality: earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Finance costs Net losses gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
In 2015 the Energy product group as presented in previous periods was Impairment charges and reversals.
split, with the coal assets taken to the newly formed Copper & Coal Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
product group and the uranium assets to the Diamonds & Minerals Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes product group.
exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity primary product.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
businesses with products such as uranium, borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations and the Simandou In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where ironoreproject, &Minerals applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if product group chief executive.
The Copper & Coal group includes certain ofasimilartype,  gold operations in addition to copper and coal.
provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 194 of these Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure which the accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of Group considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
a Gross sales revenue Rio Tintos share of the underlying profits of equity accounted units Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units amount to US$390 million in 2015 2014: US$626 million, 2013: after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$2,115 million US$710 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$307 million 2014: US$2,533 million, 2013: US$3,757 million which are not included profit to the Copper & Coal product group and US$83 million profit to in consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes other product groups 2014: US$551 million profit attributable to the subsidiary sales of US$160 million 2014: US$156 million, 2013: Copper & Coal product group and US$75 million profit to other product US$353 million to equity accounted units which are not included in groups: 2013: US$705 million profit attributable to the Copper & Coal gross sales revenue.
product group and US$5 million to other product groups.
These amounts are included in underlying earnings of the relevant product b Depreciation and amortisation groups and include the underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent which process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos costs and generally have minimal earnings.
share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity The Copper & Coal product groups underlying earnings in 2013 included accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation, a US$131 million impairment after tax in relation to the product groups excluding equity accounted units, as shown in note 4.
These figures investment in Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd following a strategic review exclude impairment charges and reversals, which are excluded from of this shareholding by the product group.
c Underlying earnings Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS d Reconciliation of net losses earnings to underlying earnings Noncontrolling Net Net Net m Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2013 Exclusions from underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 2,791 57 1,046 1,802 138 3,428 Net gains losses on consolidation and disposal of interests in e businesses 64 2 14 48 349 847 Exchange and derivative losses gains: f Exchange losses on US dollar net debt  3,518 269 33 3,282 1,858 2,929 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying g for hedge accounting 86 1 1 88 22 2 h Gains on commodity derivatives  146 58 88 30 196 Restructuring costs including global headcount reductions 344 86 258 82 367 Increased closure provision for legacy operations 262 29 233 Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments 250 16 234 Write off of deferred tax asset following the MRRT repeal 362 Gain on disposal of the Groups St Jamess Square properties 356 i Clermont Blair Athol 173 Deferred tax asset write off 114 j Rio Tinto Kennecott 21 3 18 283 k Simandou and QMM IFRS 2 charge 11 11 116 l Other exclusions 179 54 5 120 237 303 Total excluded from underlying earnings 6,960 567 987 5,406 2,778 6,552 Net loss earnings 726 993 853 866 6,527 3,665 Underlying earnings 6,234 1,560 134 4,540 9,305 10,217 e Pre-tax gain of US$64 million arose mainly from the reduction in shareholding in SouthGobi Resources, the sale of the Groups interest in Murowa Diamonds and Sengwa Colliery on the 17 June 2015 and from the Aluminium product groups divestment of ECL on 9 July 2015 and Alsea on 24 November 2015.
Net loss on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses during 2014 mainly related to further adjustments in respect of contractual obligations for product sales and delivery which remain with the Group following the sale of the Groups interest in the Clermont mine on 29 May 2014, the disposal of the Groups interest in Rio Tinto Mozambique on 7 October 2014 and indemnities provided in respect of prior disposals.
f Net exchange losses in 2015 comprise post-tax foreign exchange losses of US$1,197 million on US dollar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional currency companies on borrowings of approximately US$23.1 billion, and US$2,085 million losses on intragroup balances, as the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and the euro all weakened against the US dollar.
In late 2015 the Group restructured certain internal group borrowings to reduce the income statement volatility resulting from the retranslation of US dollar denominated debt issued by entities with a non-US dollar functional currency.
g Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives, which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and the currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
h Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, including those embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings.
i Adjustments in relation to Clermont and Blair Athol arose in 2013 following reclassification to disposal groups held for sale, and reflect contractual obligations for product sales and funding of closure activities, which will remain with the Group following completion of the divestments.
j On 10 April 2013, Rio Tinto Kennecotts Bingham Canyon mine experienced a slide along a geological fault line of its north-eastern wall.
Charges relating to the slide, which have been excluded from underlying earnings, primarily comprise the write off of certain deferred stripping assets and damaged equipment.
In 2015, adjustments for settlement of insurance claims have been made to the amount excluded from underlying earnings, and will continue as insurance claims are settled.
k In 2015, the charge of US$11 million after non-controlling interests and tax, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, reflects the recapitalisation of QIT Madagascar Minerals S. A.
In 2014, the charge of US$116 million after non-controlling interests and tax, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, reflects the discount to an estimate of fair value at which shares are transferrable to the Government of Guinea under the Simandou project Investment Framework ratified on 26 May 2014. l Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
In 2015, other exclusions included a provision relating to the uncompleted divestment of Carbone Savoie within the Rio Tinto Aluminium product group, divestment costs and an increase in provision relating to the Gove refinery.
In 2014, other exclusions included adjustments relating to the five-year community support package for the Nhulunbuy area and community following the Gove refinery curtailment.
In 2013, other exclusions included adjustments relating to inventory sold by Richards Bay Minerals during the period, which had been recognised at fair value on initial consolidation in 2012. m Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units are stated after tax and are included in the column Pre-tax.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the UK and Australia.
b 2014 and 2013 comparative figures are adjusted to conform with the 2015 presentation of consolidated sales revenue.
Gross sales revenue by product Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 15,239 23,178 26,235 Aluminium 9,904 11,667 12,059 Copper 3,381 4,815 4,766 Coal 2,799 3,685 4,557 Industrial Minerals 2,155 3,238 3,330 Gold 1,093 1,007 402 Diamonds 698 901 859 Other 1,515 1,550 2,367 Total 36,784 50,041 54,575 Share of equity accounted units sales and inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from underlying earnings 1,955 2,377 3,404 Consolidated sales revenue 34,829 47,664 51,171 Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
2015 2014 b Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 32,615 38,162 Canada 14,396 17,065 Mongolia 7,712 7,842 United States of America 5,372 5,163 Africa 3,682 5,838 South America 3,639 3,552 Indonesia 1,385 1,116 Europe excluding France and the UK 451 460 UK 274 236 France 267 491 Other countries 895 1,417 70,688 81,342 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,309 3,540 Accounts receivable 964 800 Derivatives and other financial assets excluding tax recoverable 788 722 c Quasi equity loans to equity accounted units 183 228 Tax recoverable 78 70 Total non-current assets per balance sheet 76,010 86,702 b Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
It includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$4,758 million 2014: US$4,640 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
c Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$183 million 2014: US$228 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the balance sheet and non-current non-quasi equity loans of US$nil 2014: US$nil shown within Other financial assets.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 4 Net operating costs 2015 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 9,610 11,044 11,164 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 207 237 255 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,438 4,623 4,536 Employment costs 5 5,446 6,659 7,568 Shipping and other freight costs 2,165 3,370 3,513 Decrease in finished goods and work in progress 701 1,284 199 Royalties 1,863 2,516 2,883 a Amounts charged by equity accounted units 459 1,554 1,728 Net foreign exchange losses gains 263 34 71 Other external costs 4,181 3,074 4,025 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 731 1,138 1,449 Research and development 104 112 231 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 661 738 582 Other operating income 1,062 929 794 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 27,919 33,910 36,104 a Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the equity accounted unit but in 2015, US$378 million 2014: US$463 million: 2013: US$529 million related to purchases of the other investors share of production.
5 Employment costs 2015 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m Total employment costs Wages and salaries 4,670 5,878 7,181 Social security costs 430 467 421  45 439 590 805 Share option charge 44 128 152 142 5,667 7,087 8,549 Less: charged within provisions 221 428 981 Employment costs 4 5,446 6,659 7,568 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 129 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges and reversals Noncontrolling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Diamonds&MineralsSimandou 2,039 921 1,118 Diamonds & Minerals Energy Resources of Australia Ltd 260 123 121 262 Diamonds&MineralsRoughrider 229 30 199 AluminiumOther 179 20 159 46 57 AluminiumKitimat 1,092 950  1,224 Copper& 17 6 11 559 Copper&CoalOyuTolgoi 4,716 Copper&CoalSouthGobi 269 Copper& 497 Other 67 10 4 53 1,042 Total impairment charge net of reversals 2,791 57 1,046 1,802 473 7,531 Allocated as: Goodwill note 12 116 1,149 Intangible assets note 13 1,833 1,287 Property, plant and equipment note 14 652 1,034 4,882 Investment in equity accounted units 589 216 Other assets and liabilities 190 28 3 Total impairment charge net of reversals 2,791 473 7,531 Comprising:  2,791 1,062 7,315 Impairment reversals charges of investments in equity accounted units pre-tax 841 230 Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial information by business unit page 195 2,791 221 7,545 Taxation  57 83 1,561  1,046 2,556 Total impairment in the income statement 1,802 138 3,428 Diamonds & Minerals challenges.
This resulted in a pre-tax write down to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of US$260 million to fully write off Simandou, Guinea these long-term assets.
Deferred tax assets of US$123 million were also On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an fully written off.
The business continues to process low-grade ore Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea which provided stockpiled from the now closed open-pit operations.
the legal and commercial foundation for the project and formally separated the infrastructure and mine development plan.
The Simandou Roughrider, Canada project partners are currently finalising an integrated Bankable The Group completed an Order of Magnitude study for the Roughrider Feasibility Study for the mine, port and infrastructure elements of the project in late 2015, which provided an updated view of the development project, which is scheduled to be submitted to the Government of Guinea concept and geological model for this uranium project.
The cashin May 2016. generating unit is tested annually for impairment as it contains goodwill.
The impairment test resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of As a result of current market conditions and uncertainty over US$116 million to fully write off goodwill and a pre-tax impairment infrastructure ownership and funding, the Group has determined that it charge of US$113 million to exploration and evaluation intangible would be appropriate to record a pre-tax impairment charge of assets, which were capitalised as a result of the Hathor Exploration US$1,655 million to exploration and evaluation intangible assets and a acquisition in 2012. pre-tax impairment charge of US$194 million to property, plant and equipment to fully write-down the long-term assets of the project and a The recoverable amount for Roughrider has been determined to be charge of US$7 million in relation to inventories.
The Group will expense US$250 million assessed by reference to a fair value less cost of disposal the cost of further studies as incurred.
FVLCD model in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 A further pre-tax charge of US$183 million has been recognised as a under the fair value hierarchy.
financial liability for contractual arrangements made in relation to the development of the Simandou project.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated and discounted using a post-tax discount rate of Energy Resources of Australia Ltd ERA, Australia 7.3 per cent.
Technical oversight of the Roughrider project has On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it supported ERAs decision transitioned to Rio Tinto Exploration.
The Group is continuing to evaluate not to proceed with the final Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps the optimum development pathway in light of a subdued medium-term project.
Rio Tinto also determined it did not support any further study or outlook for uranium demand.
future development of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the projects economic 130 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Aluminium Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia In May 2015, the Oyu Tolgoi Underground Mine Development and Other Financing Plan was signed, resolving the outstanding shareholder issues In the six months to 30 June 2015 challenging economic conditions at and demonstrating a commitment to develop the underground mine by the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit resulted in an US$147 million all key stakeholders.
In December 2015, a project financing package was impairment charge.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets agreed which confirms the sources of funding, pricing and leverage were fully impaired on the basis of US$nil recoverable amount.
In 2015, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$32 million was recorded in As part of the annual impairment review at 30 September 2015, the relation to other aluminium businesses which were subsequently carrying value of the project was compared with a post-tax FVLCD model disposed of in the second half of the year.
of cash flows from the open pit and underground mines.
The value In 2014, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$46 million was recorded in indicated by the FVLCD model for Oyu Tolgoi exceeded the carrying relation to other aluminium businesses.
value of the cash-generating unit by US$0.3 billion at 30 September 2015.
As such, no impairment charge has been recognised 2014: no In 2013, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$57 million was recorded in impairment charge.
No impairment indicators were identified relation to the Shawinigan aluminium smelter following the decision to subsequent to the annual testing date.
The assumptions subject to the most estimation uncertainty for the Kitimat, Canada FVLCD calculation are the long-term copper price and the discount rate.
During the first half of 2014, further revisions to future capital required to To illustrate these sensitivities on the downside, the valuation indicated complete the modernisation project resulted in a pre-tax impairment by the FVLCD modelling would reduce by US$0.8 billion if long-term charge of US$1,092 million to the property, plant and equipment of the copper prices were lower than forecast by 15 US cents per pound.
The recoverable amount was determined by Alternatively an increase in the project discount rate of one per cent reference to a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in would reduce the indicated FVLCD by US$1.4 billion if all other model note 1 i. inputs remained the same.
In the absence of mitigating actions being In 2013, the annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium taken by management, these scenarios would indicate a material cash-generating units with indefinite-life intangible assets resulted impairment loss had occurred.
in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$950 million in the Kitimat Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit.
The indefinite-life intangible assets relating to is most sensitive are operating costs, the long-term gold price, and water rights at Kitimat were fully impaired following the allocation of Mongolian tugrik and Chinese yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line Pacific Aluminium, Australia and New Zealand with the policy set out in note 1 i. Impairment reversal was recorded in 2014 in relation to the Tomago, SouthGobi, Mongolia Bell Bay and Boyne smelters, and the Gladstone Power Station, within The assets of SouthGobi were fully written-off as a result of the 2013 the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit as evidence emerged impairment testing.
that previously recognised impairment losses from 2011 and 2012 had reversed.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique In 2013, a pre-tax impairment charge was allocated to the Benga and Copper & Coal Zambeze cash-generating units which formed Rio Tinto Coal Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US Mozambique.
The business was subsequently disposed of during 2014.
In 2015, previously estimated net disposal proceeds for the Molybdenum Autoclave Process project were reduced resulting Other in a pre-tax impairment of US$17 million recorded against property, In 2013, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$790 million was recorded in plant and equipment.
In 2014, following a review of the investment relation to the full write off of property, plant and equipment at the Gove case and subsequent decision to terminate the project, a pre-tax alumina refinery following the decision to curtail operations.
The refinery impairment charge of US$559 million was recorded against property, is reported separately from Aluminium within Other Operations.
7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 2,149 2,852 4,113 Operating costs 1,609 1,804 2,871 Profit before finance items and taxation 540 1,048 1,242 Finance items 37 49 97 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 35 30 31 Profit before taxation 538 1,029 1,176 Taxation 177 404 478 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 361 625 698 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes sales by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Further information relating to the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
com 131 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 8 Finance income and finance costs 2015 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units Rio Tinto share 8 10 14 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 44 54 68 Total finance income 52 64 82 a Interest payable and similar charges 1,004 1,119 1,234 Amounts capitalised 14 254 470 727 Total finance costs 750 649 507 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of US$11 million 2014: US$199 million gain: 2013: US$266 million loss and a fair value loss on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$17 million 2014: US$200 million loss: 2013: US$257 million gain.
9 Taxation 2015 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation charge Current 1,132 3,402 4,102 Deferred 17 139 349 1,676 993 3,053 2,426 2015 2014 2013 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Loss profit before taxation 726 9,552 3,505 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 361 625 698 a Deduct add: impairment reversal impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 589 216 Parent companies and subsidiaries loss profit before tax 1,087 8,338 3,023 Prima facie tax receivable payable at UK rate of 20 per cent 2014: 21 per cent: 2013: 23 per cent 217 1,751 695 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 506 1,038 1,411 b Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings : Impairment charges net of reversals 615 112 135 Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses 11 85 199 Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 481 231 77 Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments 250 c Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 401 Other exclusions 17 35 7 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 3 11 12 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 68 5 63 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 15 121 103 Research, development and other investment allowances 21 34 49 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 40 106 Unrecognised current year operating losses 45 73 339 d Other items 12 58 178 e Total taxation charge 993 3,053 2,426 a For the year ended 31 December 2014, the impairment reversal in investments in equity accounted units is net of a tax charge of US$252 million 31 December 2013: tax credit of US$14 million.
b The impact for each item includes the effect of tax rates applicable outside the UK.
c For the year ended 31 December 2014, the remaining Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT starting base deferred tax asset was fide-recognised on repeal of the tax in Australia.
d Other items include various adjustments to provisions for taxation in prior periods.
e This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$177 million 31 December 2014: US$404 million: 31 December 2013: US$478 million.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2015 2014 2013 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 3 17 Tax on fair value movements: Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 3 2 34  19 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 12 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 20 Tax charge credit on actuarial gains losses on post-retirement benefit plans 175 215 641 Other 8 6 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss income for the year 178 206 697 a This comprises deferred tax charge of US$174 million 2014: credit of US$205 million: 2013: charge of US$697 million and current tax charge of US$4 million 2014: credit of US$1 million: 2013: US$nil, plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately see note 17.
10 Loss earnings per ordinary share 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted average 2015 average 2014 2015 number of Per share 2014 number of Per share Loss shares amount Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic loss earnings per share attributable to ordinary a shareholders of Rio Tinto 866 1,824.7 47.5 6,527 1,848.4 353.1 Diluted loss earnings per share attributable to ordinary b shareholders of Rio Tinto 866 1,824.7 47.5 6,527 1,858.7 351.2 2013 Weighted average 2013 2013 number of Per share Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents a Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 3,665 1,847.3 198.4 b Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 3,665 1,857.7 197.3 a The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,398.1 million 2014: 1,413.0 million: 2013: 1,411.6 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 426.6 million 2014: 435.4 million: 2013: 435.7 million over the relevant period.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, for the purposes of calculating diluted loss per share, the effect of potentially dilutive securities has not been taken into account for the year ended 31 December 2015.
For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 10.3 million shares in 2014 and 10.4 million shares in 2013 is added to the weighted average number of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 44.
com 133 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 11 Dividends 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,642 1,533 1,311 Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,476 1,299 1,213 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 520 473 406 Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 438 405 392 Dividends paid during the year 4,076 3,710 3,322 Dividends per share: paid during the year 226.5c 204.5c 178.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 107.5c 119.0c 108.5c Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2015 2014 2013 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 77.98p 65.82p 60.34p Rio Tinto plc interim pence 68.92p 56.90p 54.28p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 152.98c 120.14c 91.67c Rio Tinto Limited interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 144.91c 103.09c 93.00c Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares 2015 2014 2013 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year final 1,412.7 1,413.2 1,411.9 Rio Tinto plc interim 1,395.2 1,413.8 1,412.5 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 435.0 435.6 435.8 Rio Tinto Limited interim 423.7 435.7 435.5 The dividends paid in 2015 are based on the following US cents per share applied to 183,981 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 final dividend amounts: 2014 final 119.0 cents, 2015 interim 107.5 cents and on 24,046 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2014 interim dividend: 2014 dividends paid: 2013 final 108.5 cents, 2014 interim 96.0 cents: 2013: There were no applicable waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited 2013 dividends paid: 2012 final 94.5 cents, 2013 interim 83.5 cents.
shares for the 2012 final dividend.
Dividend waivers applied to 222,439 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 interim dividend.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of share trusts which waived the right to dividends.
Employee share trusts 107.5 cents per share on 11 February 2016.
This is expected to result in waived dividends on 342,902 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 24,582 payments of US$1,931 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,475 million, Rio Tinto ADRs for the 2014 final dividend and on 237,266 Rio Tinto plc ordinary Limited US$456 million.
The dividends will be paid on 7 April 2016 to shares and 27,050 ADRs for the 2015 interim dividend 2014: 207,766 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the  close of business on 26 February 2016. and on 90,304 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 1,912 ADRs for the  2014 interim dividend: 2013: 150,361 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of nil ADRs for the 2012 final dividend and 124,636 Rio Tinto plc ordinary income tax during 2016. shares and 7,303 ADRs for the 2013 interim dividend.
In 2015, 2014 and 2013, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based dividends and franked out of available credits that arose from net excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2015 dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 727,676 Rio Tinto after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2015 final Limited shares for the 2014 final dividend and on 474,665 Rio Tinto dividend declared, is US$10,899 million.
Limited shares for the 2015 interim dividend 2014: Dividend waivers 134 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 12 Goodwill 2015 2014 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 1,228 1,349 Adjustment on currency translation 220 121 a Impairment charges 116 At 31 December 892 1,228 cost 17,120 20,122 accumulated impairment 16,228 18,894 At 1 January cost 20,122 22,678 accumulated impairment 18,894 21,329 At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Net book value Richards Bay Minerals 439 591 Pilbara 363 409 a Hathor 128 Other 90 100 892 1,228 a The impairment charge of US$116 million represents the full impairment of goodwill arising from the Hathor Exploration Limited Hathor acquisition, which includes the Roughrider project.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
Impairment tests for goodwill The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are Richards Bay Minerals set out below: The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
Goodwill arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS, as defined in US$ million note 1, to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference 5% decrease in the titanium slag price 208 between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and 1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 264 their tax base and is retranslated at each period end for changes in the 10% strengthening of the South African rand 670 South African rand.
The recognition of Richards Bay Minerals identifiable assets and liabilities in the balance sheet was based on fair values at the Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and acquisition date determined with the assistance of an independent third operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been party valuer.
estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each Richards Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
impairment charge for 2015 2014: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line Pilbara with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the fair The recoverability of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Robe River value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determined by estimating cash flows until and monitored at the Pilbara cash-generating unit level has been .
assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 9.3 per cent line with the policy set out in note 1 i and is classified as level 3 under 2014: 9.2 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of expressed in real terms.
7.3 per cent 2014: 7.2 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired.
com 135 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2015 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880 Adjustment on currency translation 134 15 393 58 600 Expenditure during the year 152 64 216 c Amortisation for the year 15 90 102 207 d Impairment charges 1,773 28 30 2 1,833 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 135 4 197 178 120 At 31 December 2015 706 94 2,138 398 3,336 cost 2,585 208 3,829 1,252 7,874 accumulated amortisation and impairment 1,879 114 1,691 854 4,538 Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2014 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421 Adjustment on currency translation 86 21 195 55 357 Expenditure during the year 142 307 449 c Amortisation for the year 20 116 101 237 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 686 1 66 15 604 At 31 December 2014 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880 cost 2,770 294 4,341 1,536 8,941 accumulated amortisation and impairment 174 138 1,887 862 3,061 a Exploration and evaluation assets useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment.
The impairment charge in the year of US$1,773 million primarily relates to exploration and evaluation assets within the Simandou and Roughrider projects in the Diamonds & Minerals product group see note 6. b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan, including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amountsin Contract based intangible assets.
The remaining carrying value of the water rights US$1,655 million as at 31 December 2015 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit.
The Quebec smelters cash-generating unit was tested for impairment by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a real post-tax discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2014: 7.2 per cent.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining water rights to be impaired.
c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademarks, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: ten to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts water rights: two to 45 years Other purchase and customer contracts: five to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: two to five years Other intangible assets: two to 20 years d Other impairment charges, excluding charges against exploration and evaluation, primarily relate to the full write off of the intangible assets of the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit see note 6. e Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation include US$164 million transferred to Mining Property in relation to the Amrun project in Australia.
Rio Tinto announced on 27 November 2015 the approval of the Amrun bauxite project previously known as South of Embley expansion in north Queensland, Australia.
Production and shipping are expected to commence in the first half of 2019, ramping up to full production by the end of that year.
In 2014 disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation included US$700 million previously classified as non-current receivables pending ratification of the Simandou project Investment Framework.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure in the year net of proceeds of US$nil 2014: US$11 million: 2013: US$27 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 705 872 1,317 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$nil 2014: US$nil: 2013: US$159 million and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 15 53 160 Amount capitalised during the year 152 142 368 Netchargefortheyear 568 783 1,109 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 576 747 948 Profit loss relating to interests in undeveloped projects 8 36 161 Netchargefortheyear 568 783 1,109 At 31 December 2015, a total of US$0.8 billion had been capitalised equipment 31 December 2014: a total of US$2.9 billion had been related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed.
This capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$2.6 billion included comprised evaluation costs of US$0.7 billion included above and above and US$0.3 billion of early works expenditure within property, US$0.1 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and plant and equipment.
14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Capital properties and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2015 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693 Adjustment on currency translation 1,049 890 4,268 754 6,961 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 147 147 c Interest capitalised note 8 254 254 Additions 400 374 715 2,767 4,256 a d Depreciation for the year 725 419 3,294 4,438 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 69 51 308 224 652 Disposals 4 15 77 96 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 7 17 24 f Transfers and other movements 533 1,494 5,339 7,488 122 At 31 December 2015 11,146 7,571 37,900 4,440 61,057 cost 22,474 11,405 67,690 5,000 106,569 accumulated depreciation and impairment 11,328 3,834 29,790 560 45,512 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 37 6 43 h Non-current assets pledged as security 911 294 6,293 2,402 9,900 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 137 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Mining Capital properties Land and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2014 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827 Adjustment on currency translation 687 564 2,918 545 4,714 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 525 525 c Interest capitalised note 8 2 468 470 Additions 554 302 1,369 5,571 7,796 a d Depreciation for the year 649 432 3,542 4,623 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 139 10 277 1,440 1,034 Disposals 162 61 14 237 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 31 31 f Transfers and other movements 1,151 541 6,248 8,226 286 At 31 December 2014 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693 cost 23,045 10,845 69,835 11,544 115,269 accumulated depreciation and impairment 11,132 3,760 30,025 1,659 46,576 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 12 1 13 h Non-current assets pledged as security 1,261 173 2,823 259 4,516 a At 31 December 2015, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1,923 million, with US$1,464 million within Property, plant and equipment and a further US$459 million within Investments in equity accounted units 2014 total of US$1,816 million with US$1,373 million in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$443 million within Investments in equity accounted units.
During the year capitalisation of US$455 million was partly offset by depreciation of US$266 million.
Depreciation of deferred stripping costs of US$173 million 2014: US$84 million: 2013: US$70 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
b At 31 December 2015, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$7,435 million 2014: US$6,899 million : long leasehold US$136 million 2014: US$186 million : and no short leasehold 2014: no short leasehold.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 3.7 per cent 2014: 4.0 per cent.
d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Land and buildings Land: Not depreciated Buildings: five to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: three to 50 years Power assets: 25 to 50 years Capital work in progress: Not depreciated e During 2015 impairment charges primarily related to the Diamonds & Minerals and Aluminium businesses see note 6.
In 2014, impairment charges primarily related to the Aluminium business and charges of US$1,669 million were partially offset by US$635 million of impairment reversals.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories, including the transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$701 million 2014: US$587 million of loans, which are included in note 22.
As at the date on which the Oyu Tolgoi Project Finance agreements were signed 15 December 2015, a substantial part of the non-current assets related to Oyu Tolgoi were deemed to be pledged.
However, as at 31 December 2015, no amounts under the project financing have been drawn down.
15 Investments in equity accounted units 2015 2014 Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 6,780 6,605 Current assets 429 901 7,209 7,506 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 941 681 Non-current liabilities 1,327 1,957 2,268 2,638 Rio Tintos share of net assets 4,941 4,868 Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
The impact of impairment charges and impairment reversals on the Groups investments in equity accounted units are summarised in note 6.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
At 31 December 2015, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$1,224 million 2014: US$922 million.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 16 Inventories 2015 2014 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 528 726 Consumable stores 1,030 1,411 Work in progress 1,142 1,490 Finished goods and goods for resale 721 1,120 3,421 4,747 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 3,168 4,350 Expected to be used after more than one year 253 397 3,421 4,747 Inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$192 million 2014: US$94 million: 2013: US$201 million were recognised during the year.
At 31 December 2015, US$587 million 2014: US$430 million: 2013: US$482 million of inventories were pledged as security for liabilities.
17 Deferred taxation 2015 2014 US$m US$m At1January 34 585  149 36  139 349 a Charged credited to statement of comprehensive income 174 205 Disposals 1 10 b Other movements 58 29 At 31 December 23 34 Comprising: c d deferred tax liabilities 3,286 3,574 c e f deferred tax assets 3,309 3,540 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 139 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total Total 2015 2014 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Capital allowances 5,311 6,018 d Unremitted earnings 664 659 Capitalised interest 432 368 Unrealised exchange gains 68 255 Other temporary differences 451 248 6,926 7,548 Deferred tax assets arising from: e Tax losses 2,170 2,276 Provisions 1,745 2,096 Capital allowances 794 877 Post-retirement benefits 829 1,165 Unrealised exchange losses 522 658 Other temporary differences 889 442 6,949 7,514 Credited charged to the income statement Unrealised exchange losses 108 365 Tax losses 335 72 Provisions 40 122 Capital allowances 251 272 Tax on unremitted earnings 16 2 Post-retirement benefits 47 34 Other temporary differences 18 242 139 349 a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and on post-retirement healthcare plans.
b Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
c The deferred tax liability of US$3,286 million 2014: US$3,574 million includes US$3,275 million 2014: US$3,555 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,309 million 2014: US$3,540 million includes US$3,091 million 2014: US$3,405 million receivable in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12. d Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalling US$2,763 million 2014: US$4,067 million where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$136 million 2014: US$202 million would be payable.
e There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is two years, for the recovery of US$1,482 million 2014: US$1,347 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
f Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$6,966 million at 31 December 2015 2014: US$6,885 million.
Of this total, US$3,309 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2014: US$3,540 million, leaving US$3,657 million 2014: US$3,345 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
The amount recognised takes account of legislation which restricts the recovery of losses.
ii US$784 million 2014: US$688 million of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, the recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$433 million of the unrecognised assets 2014: US$353 million.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 18 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Trade receivables 5 1,365 1,370 5 2,483 2,488 Other receivables 370 752 1,122 435 884 1,319 b Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 288 288 387 387 Pension surpluses note 45 592 592 353 353 Amounts due from equity accounted units 27 27 36 36 Other prepayments 101 242 343 124 220 344 1,356 2,386 3,742 1,304 3,623 4,927 a At 31 December 2015, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$77 million 2014: US$39 million.
Amounts of US$37 million 2014: US$35 million were impaired: the majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
b Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2015, trade receivables of US$188 million 2014: US$82 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 71 34 between 30 and 60 days overdue 7 11 between 60 and 90 days overdue 23 30 more than 90 days overdue 22 7 123 82 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale At 31 December 2015, assets and liabilities held for sale primarily related to the Groups 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla coal Joint venture and its 71.2 per cent interest in the Blair Athol coal project Blair Athol.
At 31 December 2014 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Groups 71.2 per cent interest in Blair Athol and its 28.4 per cent indirect interest in SouthGobi Resources Limited, which was acquired as part of the gain of control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in 2012.
20 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  529 77 606 393 43 436  76 81 157 103 96 199 Otherinvestments, includingloans 183 23 206 226 61 287  42 42 71 71 788 223 1,011 722 271 993 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 843 1,146 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 8,523 11,277 Balance per Group balance sheet 9,366 12,423 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 12 23 Balance per Group cash flow statement 9,354 12,400 Cash and cash equivalents of US$426 million 2014: US$631 million are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this balance US$311 million 2014: US$455 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$802 million 2014: US$404 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned entities and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place.
Of this balance US$53 million 2014: US$24 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
com 141 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015 500 500 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 1.125% 2015 500 500 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.55% 2015 250 250 a Alcan Inc.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for the Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 see below.
b Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2014: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme EDIP against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.1 billion equivalent at 31 December 2015 2014: US$2.3 billion.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.2 billion 2014: US$ 2.4 billion in aggregate.
c The Groups borrowings of US$23.1 billion 2014: US$25.1 billion include some US$2.9 billion 2014: US$3.5 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, of which US$0.7 billion 2014: US$0.6 billion are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2015.
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  283 41 324 67 14 81  47 190 237 57 6 63 Total other financial liabilities 330 231 561 124 20 144  asabove 20,810 2,253 23,063 22,411 2,664 25,075 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 21,140 2,484 23,624 22,535 2,684 25,219 Swap arrangements million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$nil 2014: US$1,000 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited At 31 December 2015, US$7.0 billion 2014: US$3.7 billion US dollar Bonds 4.125% due 2021: US$nil 2014: US$1,150 million of the Rio notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.750% due 2021: US$nil 2014: US dollar rates and US$1.4 billion 2014: US$1.5 billion US dollar US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 3.5% due notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating 2022, US$nil 2014: US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA plc US dollar rates.
Bonds 2.875% due 2022: and, US$75 million 2014: US$75 million of Hedge accounting has been applied to the full notional of items marked the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028.
These a in the above table except for: US$750 million 2014: US$750 portions are held at amortised cost.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.7 billion and US$275 million 2014: US$54 million liability, respectively.
These 2014: US$0.8billion US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully are included in Other financial assets and Other financial liabilities in swapped to fixed US dollar rates.
Cash flow hedging was applied to the the balance sheet.
annual interest coupons and principal of this bond.
The hedge was fully Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps effective in 2015 and 2014 financial years.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2015 was US$189 million 2014: US$200 million asset 23 Capitalised finance leases 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 53 55 Effect of discounting 1 1 14 52 54 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within 1 year 7 5 Between 1 and 3 years 28 29 Between 3 and 5 years 5 6 More than 5 years 12 14 14 52 54 24 Consolidated net debt 2015 2014 US$m US$m a Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 12,495 18,055 Adjustment on currency translation 1,586 1,039 b Exchange losses charged to the income statement 1,630 1,070 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 1,109 5,357 Other movements 135 234 Closing balance 13,783 12,495 Total borrowings in balance sheet note 22 23,063 25,075 Derivatives related to net debt included in Other financial assets liabilities note 30 86 146 c Equity accounted unit funded balances excluded from net debt 11 Adjusted total borrowings 23,149 24,918 Cash and cash equivalents note 21 9,366 12,423 Consolidated net debt 13,783 12,495 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from underlying earnings Exchange losses on US dollar net debt 1,578 1,056 2,098 Exchange losses on intragroup balances 1,961 940 1,574 Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 1 Exchange gains on settlement of dividend 1 Charged to income statement 3,538 1,995 3,672 a Consolidated net debt is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements between equity accounted units and partially owned subsidiaries equity accounted unit funded balances.
This adjustment is required in order to avoid showing borrowings twice in the net debt disclosure, where funding has been provided to an equity accounted unit by the Group and subsequently on-lent by the equity accounted unit to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
b Exchange losses taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from underlying earnings.
c Equity accounted unit funded balances are defined as amounts owed by partially owned subsidiaries to equity accounted units, where such funding was provided to the equity accounted unit by the Group.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
com 143 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 25 Trade and other payables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 9 2,567 2,576 5 2,592 2,597 Accruals and deferred income 179 1,400 1,579 248 2,123 2,371 a Other payables 263 1,075 1,338 359 1,201 1,560 Employee entitlements 747 747 905 905 Royalties and mining taxes 2 345 347 2 526 528 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 131 100 231 147 78 225 Government grants deferred 98 3 101 110 12 122 682 6,237 6,919 871 7,437 8,308 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$nil 2014: US$29 million relating to acquired assets.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non-interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions including post-retirement benefits Pensions Close down and postOther and retirement employee restoration Total Total a b c healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081 Adjustment on currency translation 407 70 763 104 1,344 963 Adjustments to mining properties note 14 changes in estimate 147 147 525 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing and new provisions 141 128 456 173 898 1,217 unused amounts reversed 47 92 119 258 170 exchange losses on provisions 39 52 91 91 amortisation of discount 1 335 42 378 384 Utilised in year 230 140 303 151 824 1,269 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 442 442 776 Newly consolidated operations note 37 11 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 14 3 11 9 19 23 Transfers to assets held for sale 12 12 17 16 57 23 Transfers and other movements 2 5 113 106 81 At 31 December 3,122 458 8,426 1,060 13,066 14,602 Balance sheet analysis: Current 107 319 484 280 1,190 1,299 Non-current 3,015 139 7,942 780 11,876 13,303 Total 3,122 458 8,426 1,060 13,066 14,602 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post-retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$322 million 2014: US$354 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$52 million 2014: US$113 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c The Groups policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k and in paragraph v under Critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 119 and 123.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of around 17 years 2014: 18 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$8,426 million 2014: US$8,630 million for close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean-up obligations are based on risk adjusted cash flows.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at a real risk free rate of 2 per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$286 million 2014: US$341 million expected to take place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$867 million 2014: US$798 million expected to take place later than five years after the balance sheet date.
Close-down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2015 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$97 million 2014: US$108 million relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2015 2014 2013 Number Number Number 2015 2014 2013 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376 230 230 230 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.022 0.001 0.001 b Shares purchased and cancelled 40.913 6 At 31 December 1,384.487 1,425.378 1,425.377 224 230 230 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257 a Shares reissued from treasury 0.790 1.451 1.437 b Shares purchased and cancelled 40.913 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.022 0.001 0.001 At 31 December 1,374.046 1,414.147 1,412.695 Sharesheldintreasury 10.441 11.231 12.682 Shares held by public 1,374.046 1,414.147 1,412.695 Total share capital 1,384.487 1,425.378 1,425.377 Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only d DLC Dividend Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only a 21,709 ordinary shares were issued in 2015 under the Global Employee Share Plan.
789,887 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the vesting of awards and the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans, with exercise prices and market values between 15.086 and 32.375 per share 2014: 971 ordinary shares were issued, and 1,450,659 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 10.979 and 36.275 per share: 2013: 951 ordinary shares issued, and 1,436,542 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 10.43 and 35.76 per share.
b The authority for the Company to buy back its ordinary shares was renewed at the 2015 annual general meeting.
40,912,881 shares were bought back and cancelled in 2015 under the on-market buy-back programme.
No shares were bought back in 2014 and 2013. c The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the Global Employee Share Plan was US$0.9 million 2014: US$0.05 million: 2013: US$0.04 million.
The difference between the nominal value and the issue price of the shares issued was credited to the share premium account.
The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$13 million 2014: US$22 million: 2013: US$32 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans in 2015, 2014 and 2013. d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC Merger.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2015, US$34.1 million of shares and ADRs 2014: US$49.5 million: 2013: US$42 million were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2015, 827,679 shares and 17,890 ADRs were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2015 2014 2013 Number Number Number 2015 2014 2013 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,535 4,911 5,715 Adjustment on currency translation 503 376 804 a Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 11.57 82 At 31 December 424.19 435.76 435.76 3,950 4,535 4,911 b Special Voting Share 1only 1only 1only b DLCDividendShare 1only 1only 1only Total share capital 424.19 435.76 435.76 a At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2014 shareholders authorised off-market and on-market buy-backs of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
In April 2015, 11,566,308 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchased at A$48.44 per share and cancelled under an off-market share buy-back programme.
b The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC Merger.
com 145 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 28 Share Capital Rio Tinto Limited continued Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2015 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 28 28 28 Own shares purchased and cancelled 6 At 31 December 34 28 28 b Hedging reserves At 1 January 12 3 68 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 41 48 149 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses gains transferred to the income statement 32 55 69 Tax on the above 3 2 9 At 31 December 12 3 c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 130 117 179 Losses on available for sale securities 16 19 67 Losses on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 7 6 146 Tax on the above 17 At 31 December 139 130 117 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,704 11,766 11,778 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 25 129 77 Employee share options: value of services 58 69 64 Deferred tax on share options 2 2 1 At 31 December 11,735 11,704 11,766 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 492 1,191 3,309 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 1,940 1,690 2,138 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 57 43 44 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 2 53 81 Tax on the above 3 17 At 31 December 2,491 492 1,191 Total other reserves per balance sheet 9,139 11,122 12,871 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m f Retained earnings At 1 January 26,110 23,605 21,496 Parent and subsidiaries loss profit for the year 1,218 5,243 2,796 Equity accounted units profit after tax for the year 352 1,284 869 g Actuarial gains losses 616 720 2,211 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 173 204 631 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 423 6,011 5,245 Share buy-back scheme 1,946 Dividends paid 4,076 3,710 3,322 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 20 36 102 Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements 27 28 11 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 78 196 73 At 31 December 19,736 26,110 23,605 146 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the UK Companies Act 2006 previously section 170 of the UK Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
Balances reflect the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p iii.
c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p i d. d Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Other reserves also include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
f Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of joint operations.
g There were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units in 2015, 2014 or 2013.
30 Financial instruments and risk management Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments CFairvalues A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,366 9,366 a Trade and other receivables 2,468 2,456 12 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 157 157 Other investments, including loans 20 206 32 170 4 b Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 5 5 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: b not designated as hedges 20 412 412 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 189 189 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 225 225 Total financial assets 13,028 12,079 157 788 4 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 5,373 24 5,349 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 2,253 2,253 Medium and long term borrowings 22 20,810 20,810 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 275 275 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as b hedges 22 49 49 Other financial liabilities 22 237 237 Total financial liabilities 28,997 348 28,649 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 147 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 12,423 a Trade and other receivables 3,727 3,715 12 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 199 199 Other investments, including loans 20 287 118 164 5 b Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 17 17 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: b not designated as hedges 20 219 219 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 200 200 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 299 299 Total financial assets 17,371 16,555 199 612 5 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 6,155 24 6,131 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 2,664 2,664 Medium and long term borrowings 22 22,411 22,411 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 54 54 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as b hedges 22 27 27 Other financial liabilities 22 63 63 Total financial liabilities 31,374 105 31,269 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to joint operations and other prepayments and specific items within other receivables and will therefore not agree to note 18. b These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22. c Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore not agree to note 25.
A b Financial risk management financial risks.
It performs its activities in a strong control environment, within Board approved limits.
It is responsible for Funding and exposure management managing liquidity through funding and investments as well as financial The Groups policies on financial risk management are clearly defined risks such as foreign exchange, interest, financial counterparty credit, and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups commodity, insurance and pension risk.
It is also responsible for long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, managing banking relationships across the Group.
Its activities are interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and principally retained within the Group Treasury function.
Treasury policy The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance the trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a in joint arrangements and associates.
However, derivatives are used as number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
and when required in order to manage the Groups exposure in The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most accordance with its underlying financial risk management principles.
of the countries in which the Group operates provides a further natural Cash management and investment activities are managed and hedge in the long term.
Production of minerals, aluminium and alumina co-ordinated centrally by Treasury using only approved counterparties is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia  and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically i Foreign exchange risk tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high and vice versa.
Management policy These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using The Groups shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US In addition, US dollar floating interest rates have historically also tended dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of the Groups interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates.
However, in some located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported circumstances, the Group elects to maintain a higher proportion of fixed equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian rate funding.
dollars are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar Treasury operations influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a Treasury is a global and centralised support and service function that significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the acts as the custodian of the Groups cash and balance sheet and its key US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly 148 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS determined has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting However, a strengthening of the US dollar does reduce the value of non exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and US dollar denominated net assets and therefore total equity.
liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for explained in note 1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on all financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate swaps Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including relating to borrowings.
intragroup balances, are held in currencies other than the functional After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below summarises, by currency, the Groups net debt, after taking into account relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts: Net Cash and Derivatives funds Net funds cash Total borrowings related debt debt equivalents in note 22 to net debt 2015 2014 Net funds debt by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 8,767 22,198 86 13,517 12,144 Australian dollar 236 513 277 125 Euro 46 134 88 127 South African rand 80 51 29 85 Canadian dollar 42 163 121 169 Sterling 27 27 4 Other 168 4 164 151 Total 9,366 23,063 86 13,783 12,495 Hedging strategy Sensitivities Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies.
The basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial sensitivity associated with a ten per cent weakening of a particular stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in currency would be broadly equal and opposite to the figures presented.
specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and the Board.
A quarterly treasury report is provided to senior management financial liabilities held at 31 December 2015, where balances are not which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint impact of derivatives.
Refer to section B for the details of cross currency operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity interest rate, currency forward and option contracts used to manage the accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2015.
2016, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2015 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Net Closing Effect impacting impact exchange on net underlying on rate US earnings earnings equity Currency exposure cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 73 182 58 Canadian dollar 72 771 2 Euro 109 60 25 NewZealanddollar 68 At 31 December 2014 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Effect impacting Net Closing on net underlying impact exchange rate earnings earnings on equity Currencyexposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 82 855 27 5 Canadian dollar 86 1,537 22 1 Euro 122 48 16 New Zealand dollar 78 28 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 149 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange for one of the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an LME and COMEX in New York.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to appropriate representation.
changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active ii Interest rate risk market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and Management policy sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate management are generally agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers, policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This although volume commitments vary by product.
approach is based on a historical correlation between interest rates and Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally commodity prices.
However, in certain circumstances the Group may priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days elect to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant Hedging strategy quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into provisionally priced sales based on estimates of fair value of the interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The market value of such consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At instruments moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to .
 market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money instruments either contract.
For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage those products such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly counterparty credit risk.
related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as the LME, and the value of product At the end of 2015, US$12.3 billion 2014: US$17.6 billion of the sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on Groups adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into that market.
account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 53 per cent fixed to 47 per cent floating 2014: The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded 71 per cent fixed to 29 per cent floating.
On a net debt basis, the fixed to as an adjustment to sales revenue.
floating debt ratio was 89 per cent fixed liability to 11 per cent floating At the end of 2015, the Group had 252 million pounds of copper sales liability 2014: 139 per cent fixed liability to 39 per cent floating asset.
2014: 331 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 217 The weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at cents per pound 2014: US 288 cents per pound.
The final price of these 31 December 2015 was approximately 3.5 per cent 2014: approximately sales will be determined during the first half of 2016.
A ten per cent 3.7 per cent and the weighted average maturity was approximately change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales, 8 years 2014: 8 years.
The weighted average maturity and weighted all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by average effective interest rate are based on current interest rates and US$36 million 2014: US$51 million.
the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
Hedging strategy The fixed:floating net debt ratio at the end of 2015 and 2014 reflects the Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe the Group and the impact of borrowings held at fixed rates.
commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2015. its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at Sensitivities 31 December 2015 are set out in section B.
Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating rate Sensitivities financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2015, the effect on The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be a charge of embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December US$4 million 2014: credit of US$20 million.
The Group has an exposure 2015.
A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair by US$70 million 2014: US$97 million, and a ten per cent decrease in value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve.
These prices would increase net earnings by US$58 million 2014: derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollar rates.
A ten per cent change in prices would have a nil impact With all factors remaining constant and based on the composition of on equity, before tax, 2014: US$4 million.
derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2015, the The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by sell non financial items can be net settled but were entered into and US$100 million charge 2014: US$112 million charge for sterling and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non US$103 million credit 2014: US$108 million credit for US dollar.
A financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the sale or usage requirements.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2016, and therefore this information should be used with care.
iv Credit risk Treasury management policy iii Commodity price risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations Management policy under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, Board and to rigid internal controls.
including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Credit risks related to receivables receivable.
Details of trade and other receivables past due but not Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the impaired are provided in note 18.
Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers value of each class of financial assets refer to table of financial assets based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated and liabilities reported above.
The Group does not hold collateral as by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set security for any trade receivables.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
Government or money market funds and balances with banks and High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties who have been assigned specific credit limits At 31 December 2015, the Group had approximately 74 customers beforehand based on specific assessment criteria.
The counterparty credit 2014: 105 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million framework and limits are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The each and these balances accounted for approximately 75 per cent 2014: limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore 77 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 13 customers 2014: 22 mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
customers with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 37 per cent 2014: just over 43 per cent of total amounts The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m  21 9,366 12,423  2,468 3,727 Investments 20 206 287 Derivativeassets 20 606 436 Total 12,646 16,873 v Liquidity and capital risk management results for the financial year, the outlook for the Groups major commodities, the Boards view of the long-term growth prospects of the Management policy business and the Groups objective of maintaining a strong balance The Groups overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard sheet.
The Board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for longer term to be in a range of 40% 60% of underlying earnings in shareholders.
In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as the aggregate throughout the cycle.
Acknowledging the cyclical nature of mining industry, maintaining a strong balance sheet and a sound the industry in periods of strong earnings and cash generation it is the financial risk management framework are desirable to preserving Boards intention to supplement the ordinary dividends with additional financial flexibility and generating shareholder value through the cycle.
The resulting capital structure provides the In practice, this involves regular reviews by the board and senior Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are To maintain a strong balance sheet, the Group considers various financial identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and focus metrics including a target net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent, the on the dividend policy, and other forms of shareholder return whilst also overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total striving to maintain a strong balance sheet.
In February 2016, the Group capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory announced a change in its dividend policy, moving from a progressive reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
dividend policy to a dividend determined by, taking into account the 2015 2014 Total capital US$m US$m  seeGroupbalancesheet 37,349 46,285  seeGroupbalancesheet 6,779 8,309 Netdebt note24 13,783 12,495 Totalcapital 57,911 67,089 Net debt is a measure used by management and the Board to manage billion at 31 December 2014 to US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2015 as the Groups capital structure and liquidity risks and is linked to all of the operating cash inflows were more than offset by outflows relating to Groups value drivers.
It is also used to manage the Groups interest rate capital expenditure, the dividend and the share buy-back programme.
At risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash.
Net debt is 31 December 2015 net debt to total capital was 24 per cent 2014: disclosed and defined in note 24.
Net debt increased from US$12.5 19 per cent and interest cover was 7 times 2014: 13 times.
com 151 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
2015 2014 a Long term rating AA3 AA3 Short term rating A-2 P-2 A-2 P-2 Outlook Negative Stable a Stable Stable a On 24 February 2016, the Group was downgraded to Baa1 with a negative outlook.
The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf drawdown.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
At Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper 31 December 2015, the facilities were undrawn.
The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2014 In December 2015, Oyu Tolgoi LLC signed a $4.4 billion project finance under the various finance programmes listed.
In June 2015, under its US facility.
The facility consists of the following components: $0.8 billion 15 Shelf Programme, the Group issued a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited year A Loan at LIBOR plus 3.78% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 4.78% US$1,200 million 3.75% bond due 2025.
The proceeds were used to post completion: $0.9 billion 14 year Export Credit Agencies Loan at repurchase the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited US$700 million 2.5% LIBOR plus 3.65% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 4.65% postbond due 2016 and the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited US$500 million completion: $0.4 billion 13 year Export Credit Agencies Loan US Ex-Im at 2.25% bond due 2016. fixed rate of Commercial Interest Reference Rate based on US Treasury In November 2013, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited rates, determined at the time of disbursement: $0.7 billion 12 year MIGA , asborrowers,  Insured Loan at LIBOR plus 2.65% pre-completion and LIBOR plus 3.65% of US$7.5 billion with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities are guaranteed post-completion: and $1.6 billion 12 year B Loan at LIBOR plus 3.4% by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The facilities comprised a pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.4% post-completion includes $50 million US$1,875 million three-year multi-currency revolving credit facility and a 15 year loan at A Loan rate.
US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility The facilities are provided and funded by international financial including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility.
Both institutions and export credit agencies representing the governments of facilities had two one-year extension options, the first of which was the United States, Canada and Australia, along with 15 commercial utilised in November 2014.
In November 2015, the US$1,875 million and banks.
US$5,625 million facilities were amended and their maturities extended to November 2018 and November 2020 respectively with the two oneThe Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency MIGA provided political year extension options reinstated.
The renewed extension options could risk insurance for the commercial banks.
be utilised in 2016 and or 2017, subject to the agreement by the banks.
Draw down of the $4.4 billion facility by Oyu Tolgoi is subject to  satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, and to approval by the the general corporate purposes of the Group.
boards of Rio Tinto, Turquoise Hill and Oyu Tolgoi.
Steps prerequisite to Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum the boards approval comprise: updating the feasibility study, including based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro, the revised capital estimates: and securing all necessary permits for the Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans respectively plus a margin development of the underground mine.
which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as The parties have agreed a debt cap of $6 billion, providing potential for determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of an additional $1.6 billion of Supplemental Debt in future.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS A c Financial liability analysis  groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily .
At 31 December 2015 Within 1yearoron Between Between Between Between After demand 1and2years 2and3years 3and4years 4and5years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 4,967 406 5,373 Borrowings before swaps 2,266 1,889 3,462 1,538 1,945 12,318 23,418 a Expected future interest payments 884 867 837 628 561 4,789 8,566 Other financial liabilities 190 5 195 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt net settled 30 30 30 30 29 28 177 Derivatives related to net debt a gross settled : gross inflows 62 62 62 62 872 1,617 2,737 gross outflows 65 65 65 65 1,039 1,824 3,123 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 29 6 2 37 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: grossinflows 22 22 grossoutflows 22 22 Total 8,309 3,146 4,272 2,139 2,644 17,288 37,798 At 31 December 2014 Within 1yearoron Between Between Between Between After demand 1and2years 2and3years 3and4years 4and5years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 5,640 515 6,155 Borrowings before swaps 2,664 2,868 1,973 3,139 1,524 12,535 24,703 a Expected future interest payments 927 883 838 816 608 5,492 9,564 Other financial liabilities 49 67 3 1 120 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt gross a : settled gross inflows 36 36 36 36 36 1,614 1,794 gross outflows 28 28 28 28 28 1,705 1,845 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 11 8 1 20 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: grossinflows 423 423 gross outflows 423 423 Total 9,283 4,333 2,806 3,949 2,124 18,118 40,613 a Interest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at the end of the applicable financial year.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
c The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$3.3 billion 2014: US$3.3 billion.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 153 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued B Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2015, are summarised below: Total fair value 2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 5 17 b Interest rate swaps 189 16 189 c Cross currency interest rate swaps 259 11 54 Total derivatives designated as hedges 194 275 217 54 Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 13 5 d Aluminium forward contracts 5 22 13 20 a Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 16 1 15 a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 357 2 182 Other embedded derivatives 21 9 Other commodity contracts 24 2 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 412 49 219 27 Total derivative instruments 606 324 436 81 Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 78 41 43 14 Between 1 and 5 years 121 144 102 13 More than 5 years 407 139 291 54 Total 606 324 436 81 Total net derivative instruments 282 355 2015 2014 Reconciliation to balance sheet US$m US$m non-current assets note 20 529 393 current assets note 20 77 43 current liabilities note 22 41 14 non-current liabilities note 22 283 67 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 282 355 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
b The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 22. c The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22. d The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash.
In 2015, US$ 6 million ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement 2014: US$15 million.
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert  they largely offset.
C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Short term borrowings note 22 2,253 2,255 2,664 2,711 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 20,810 20,302 22,411 23,657 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$21.3 billion 2014: US$23.2 hierarchy.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$20.8 billion 2014: discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield US$24.5 billion and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS C a Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2015: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 157 87 7 10 53 d Other investments, including loans note 20 206 99 71 36 e Trade receivables 1,370 12 1,358 1,733 186 19 81 1,447 f Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 5 5 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 363 7 370 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 86 86 2,015 186 74 456 1,447 The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2014: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 199 56 85 12 46 d Other investments, including loans note 20 287 108 56 123 e Trade receivables 2,488 12 2,476 2,974 176 85 68 2,645 f Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 17 17 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 192 2 3 197 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 146 146 3,329 174 228 282 2,645 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d Other investments, including loans, comprise: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds and royalty amounts receivable.
The royalty receivables are valued based on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
e Trade receivables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
f Level 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2016 and 2030 2014: 2015 and 2030.
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$370 million at 31 December 2015 2014: US$196 million are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative extends beyond the forward curve for aluminium.
Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract.
The other contracts with a fair value of US$5 million at 31 December 2015 2014: US$18 million are categorised as level three as the market premium assumptions used represent unobservable inputs.
g Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates.
A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
h There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2015 or the year ended 31 December 2014.
com 155 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued C b Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Level 3 financial assets Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities and financial liabilities Opening balance 282 461 Currency translation adjustments 43 17 Totalrealisedgainsor losses includedin: Net operating costs 6 8 Total unrealised gains included in: Net operating costs 196 18 Total unrealised gains or losses transferred into other comprehensive income 15 5 Additions 8 Disposals  175 Closing balance 456 282 Total losses gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 15 11 Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives increase in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a  US$38 million 31 December 2014: US$39 million decrease in carrying unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted value.
A ten per cent decrease in long term metal pricing assumptions cashflow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant of would result in a US$39 million 31 December 2014: US$71 million these assumptions relate to long term pricing wherein internal pricing increase in carrying value.
assumptions are used after the ten year LME curve.
A ten per cent 31 Contingencies and commitments 2015 2014 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 710 1,838 Between 1 and 3 years 98 96 Between 3 and 5 years 2 23 After 5 years 24 30 Total 834 1,987 Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 300 782 Between 1 and 3 years 57 331 Total 357 1,113 Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to For Sohar Aluminium Company L. C. C. the Group, along with the other joint ventures joint venturers, has made various commitments to provide shareholder funding as required, subject to approved thresholds.
The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion in excess of the Groups ownership interest of the output of Sohar In 2014, Minera Escondida Limitada held a shareholder line of credit for Aluminium Company L. C. C. an aluminium smelter in which the Group is US$225 million Rio Tinto share which was undrawn at 31 December a joint venturer.
The Group immediately sells the purchased products to 2014.
This line of credit matured during the year ended 31 December third parties.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Within 1 year 400 429 Between 1 and 3 years 590 690 Between 3 and 5 years 443 460 After 5 years 745 766 2,178 2,345 156 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2015 2014 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,677 2,912 Between 1 and 2 years 2,269 2,434 Between 2 and 3 years 1,856 2,026 Between 3 and 4 years 1,519 1,660 Between 4 and 5 years 1,346 1,479 After 5 years 12,945 19,572 22,612 30,083 Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that Purchases from joint arrangements or associates are included to the are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, extent that the quantity purchased is in excess of Rio Tintos ownership including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased or consumed: interest in the entity.
However, purchase obligations exclude contracted fixed, minimum or variable price provisions: and the approximate timing purchases of bauxite, alumina and aluminium from joint arrangements of the transactions.
and associates and contracted purchases of alumina from third parties as the purchases are made for commercial reasons and the Group is, Purchase obligations for goods primarily relate to purchases of raw overall, a net seller of these commodities.
materials and consumables and purchase obligations for services primarily relate to charges for use of infrastructure, commitments to In addition, as explained above, the Group has a commitment to purchase power and freight contracts.
These goods and services are purchase and market a portion in excess of the Groups ownership expected to be used in the business.
To the extent that this changes a interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. provision for onerous obligations may be made as described in note 1 i.
2015 2014 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations a b Indemnities and other performance guarantees 226 239 a Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual arrangements for example undertakings related to supplier agreements not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Marketing of iron ore is undertaken in the Singapore Commercial Centre Guarantees by parent companies by Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd RTIOA, which is remunerated on an Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and .
The unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by the arrangements are under review by the Australian Tax Office ATO.
Rio following 100 per cent owned finance subsidiaries: US$17.3 billion Tinto considers the arrangements to be in accordance with transfer 31 December 2014: US$18.5 billion Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited pricing law, and will therefore vigorously defend its position in the event and Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds with maturity dates up to 2042: of any ATO challenge.
and US$2.1 billion 31 December 2014: US$2.3 billion on the European Debt Issuance Programme.
In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio The Group is subject to certain legal proceedings, claims, complaints and Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an investigations arising out of the ordinary course of business.
Legal aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion 31 December 2014: US$7.5 billion.
proceedings include, but are not limited to, breach of contract, breach of The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
environmental, competition, securities and health and safety laws.
The Group may not be insured fully, or at all, in respect of such risks.
The Contingent assets Group cannot predict the outcome of individual legal actions.
The Group The Group has, from time to time various insurance claims outstanding may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment with reinsurers.
These include a claim relating to the Manefay slide or determination of liability.
The Group may do so to avoid the cost, at Rio Tinto Kennecott in April 2013.
An interim progress payment was management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational received on this claim in 2013 and a second in 2015.
Further consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when they believe receipts are considered probable but the amount cannot currently be they have valid defences to liability.
The Group believes that no material reliably estimated.
loss to the Group is expected to result from these legal proceedings, claims, complaints and investigations.
b Other countries primarily includes employees in the Middle East excluding Oman, India, Singapore and other countries in Asia which are not shown separately in the table above.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the average number of employees in Singapore was 212 and the average number of employees in India was 232.
Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest under contractual agreements.
Average employee numbers include a part-year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time-equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 33 Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2015 Proportion Group Company and country of incorporation Class of shares of class interest Non-controlling operation Principal activities held held % % interest % Australia Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Ltd Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 c North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary aluminium smelting Ordinary 100 100 Class A 40 c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining 60 40 Class B 73.61 Brazil d Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production and bauxite mining Quota 100 100 Canada Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects Common 100 100 e Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common 58.72 58.72 41.28 Common 100 100 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high purity iron and steel Class B preference 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: aluminium smelting Common 100 100 Class A, B, C 100 100 Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Diamond mining and processing f Canada Holding Inc. Class P1 preferred 100 100 Guinea g Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 Madagascar h QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common 80 80 15 Investment certificates 100 100 Voting Certificates 80 80 20 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common 50.79 50.79 49.21 i Oyu Tolgoi LLC Namibia B N$1 71.22 j Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining 68.62 31.38 C N10c 70.59 South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary B Ordinary 100 74 26 Titanium dioxide high purity iron k Limited production B preference 100 Parent Preference 100 B Ordinary 100 74 26 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B preference 100 k Limited Parent Preference 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation Copper and gold mining, smelting Common US$0.01 100 100 including Kennecott Utah Copper, and refining, land development and Kennecott Land and Kennecott exploration activities Exploration U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of Common US$0.10 100 100 borates This list includes only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
Refer to note 47 for a list of related undertakings.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
com 159 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued a Of the Groups 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
Coal & Allied forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Through a series of intermediate companies, Coal & Allied held interests in Bengalla 40 per cent, pending completion of sale to New Hope Corporation which is anticipated to be in Q1 2016, Mount Thorley 80 per cent and Warkworth 55.6 per cent as at 31 December 2015.
The Groups beneficial interests were therefore: Bengalla: 32 per cent: Mount Thorley: 64 per cent: Warkworth: 44.5 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Coal & Allied also owns 100 per cent of Hunter Valley Operations.
In February 2016, the restructuring of the Coal and Allied group completed.
As a result Rio Tinto now has a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd. Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture.
b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Groups interests in Hail Creek 82 per cent, Blair Athol 71.2 per cent and Kestrel 80 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities: the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Queensland Coal forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd which is 60 per cent owned by the Group holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
North Mining Ltd which is wholly owned by the Group holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River.
Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest.
The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in Robe River.
d Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Groups 10 per cent interest in Consrcio fide Alumnio Do Maranho, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a joint operator.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
e Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. is incorporated in the United States of America, but operates in Canada.
f Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holdings Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Groups 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Diamond Mine Diavik, an unincorporated arrangement that is not an entity.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
g Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 87.88 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 46.58 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
h The Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights: a further 5 per cent economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent.
The non-controlling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent of the total voting rights.
i The Group obtained a controlling interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited on 24 January 2012.
Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd Turquoise Hill on 2 August 2012.
The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill, which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi OT which is subsidiary of Turquoise Hill.
The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT.
Turquoise Hill is incorporated in Canada but operates principally in Mongolia.
j The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited holds 35.57 per cent of the total voting rights: the non-controlling interests hold 64.43 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of the Groups board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia, this is considered to be a protective right.
Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rssing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
k Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
The Groups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited is 74 per cent.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore Iron Ore Energy Energy Company of Company of Resources of Resources of Turquoise Turquoise c a c a b b c Canada Canada Australia Australia Simandou Simandou Hill Hill 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,353 1,696 245 345 1,636 1,765 Profit loss after tax 12 222 412 167 1,955 334 215 156 attributable to non-controlling interests 4 93 132 54 974 171 76 164 attributable to Rio Tinto 8 129 280 113 981 163 139 8 Other comprehensive loss 341 192 21 38 7 34 Total comprehensive loss income 353 30 433 205 1,955 334 222 190 Non-current assets 2,325 2,944 89 565 1,769 7,712 8,337 Current assets 412 442 363 372 18 53 1,728 1,382 Current liabilities 261 332 94 75 78 36 322 409 Non-current liabilities 724 949 355 427 19 16 167 595 Net assets 1,752 2,105 3 435 79 1,770 8,951 8,715 attributable to non-controlling interests 724 871 1 138 44 877 4,075 4,010 attributable to Rio Tinto 1,028 1,234 2 297 35 893 4,876 4,705  206 506 56 61 59 98 658 864 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 120 a These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey and Simfer S. A. which together form the Simandou Iron Ore project.
b Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds controlling interests in Oyu Tolgoi.
Turquoise Hills rights issue at the beginning of 2014 increased non-controlling interests by US$1,158 million.
c These include impairment adjustments recognised by Rio Tinto.
Refer to note 6 on page 130 for further information.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Other Other Robe River Robe River companies companies Mining Co Mining and and c c Pty Co Pty eliminations eliminations Robe River Robe River 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 976 1,687 1,133 1,968 2,109 3,655 Profit loss after tax 615 766 203 1,036 818 1,802 attributable to non-controlling interests 176 300 176 300 attributable to Rio Tinto 439 466 203 1,036 642 1,502 Other comprehensive loss 107 364 578 187 685 551 Total comprehensive income loss 508 402 375 849 133 1,251 Non-current assets 2,935 4,444 4,154 5,296 7,089 9,740 Current assets 602 73 10 86 592 159 Current liabilities 105 112 247 271 352 383 Non-current liabilities 60 289 2,120 2,969 2,180 3,258 Net assets 3,372 4,116 1,777 2,142 5,149 6,258 attributable to nocontrolling interests 1,347 1,620 1,347 1,620 attributable to Rio Tinto 2,025 2,496 1,777 2,142 3,802 4,638 Cashflow from operations 798 1,438 733 1,578 1,531 3,016 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 271 181 271 181 c Other companies and eliminations includes North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group which accounts for its interest in Robe River and goodwill of US$363 million 2014: US$409 million that arose on acquisition of the Groups interest in Robe River.
During 2015 the branch of North Mining Limited and the company were combined, in 2014 only the branch of North Mining Limited is presented.
34 Principal joint operations Group Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a Kestrel Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 b c Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 New Zealand b c New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.4 Canada Alouette Aluminium production 40 Indonesia d Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 United States of America c e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.3 This list includes only those joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has an 80 per cent interest share in the Kestrel Joint Venture, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the Joint Venture Agreement, giving rise to the joint control.
b Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
c Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control: this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification for these entities as joint operations.
d Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
com 161 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 35 Principal joint ventures At 31 December 2015 Class of Proportion Group Company and country of Number of shares of class interest incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held held % % Chile a Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Oman b Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 This list includes only those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements provides for an Owners Council whereby significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated in effect require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton holders of a 57.5 per cent interest.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
The year-end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are, however, based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
b Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Sohar Sohar Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Minera Minera Aluminium Aluminium Benga Benga Escondida Escondida Company Company Mauritius Mauritius c c c c d Limitada Limitada L. L. C. L. L. C. Limited Limited 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 6,184 7,607 665 675 91 Depreciation and amortisation 977 1,027 135 135 Other operating costs 3,777 3,237 445 450 220 Operating profit loss 1,430 3,343 85 90 129 Finance expense 20 33 20 20 11 Income tax 533 1,237 5 5 Profit loss after tax 877 2,073 70 65 140 Total comprehensive income loss 877 2,073 70 65 140 Non-current assets 13,761 12,093 3,400 3,515 Current assets 2,177 2,453 255 270 Current liabilities 2,303 1,567 240 330 Non-current liabilities 2,223 2,170 1,480 1,590 Net assets 11,412 10,809 1,935 1,865 Assets and liabilities above include: Cash and cash equivalents 197 263 10 15 Current financial liabilities 1,223 203 170 260 Non-current financial liabilities 1,200 1,060 1,320 1,405 Dividends received from joint venture Rio Tinto share 401 251 162 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Reconciliation of the above amounts to the Investment recognised in the Group balance sheet d d Group interest 30% 30% 20% 20% Net assets 11,412 10,809 1,935 1,865 Groups ownership interest 3,424 3,243 387 373 Other adjustments 11 6 Carrying value of Groups interest 3,413 3,237 387 373 c In addition to its Investment in equity accounted unit, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$582 million 2014: US$546 million relating to tax on unremitted earnings.
d On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of Mozambique.
36 Principal associates At 31 December 2015 Class of Proportion Group Number of shares of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held held % % Australia a BoyneSmeltersLimited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brasil 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 b Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 12 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 United States of America Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 This list includes only those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the parties.
Although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of Mineraao Rio do Norte S. A. it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
c Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters d d Limited Limited 2015 2014 US$m US$m Revenue 10 Profit after tax 40 1,072 e Other comprehensive loss 91 82 Total comprehensive loss income 51 990 f Non-current assets 1,525 1,813 Current assets 64 86 Current liabilities 106 108 Non-current liabilities 1,069 1,369 Net assets 414 422 d Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation: as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls.
Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina.
These are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
e Other comprehensive loss is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
f In 2014, a post-tax impairment reversal of US$589 million was recorded.
Group interest 59.4% 59.4% Net assets 414 422 Groups ownership interest 246 251 Loans to equity accounted units 183 228 Carrying value of Groups interest 429 479 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 163 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates continued Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group Joint Joint ventures ventures Associates Associates 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m  10 403 702 749 Profitaftertax 16 60 30 Other comprehensive income loss 15 30 43 14 Total comprehensive income loss 15 14 17 16 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses Acquisitions share-based payment.
The discount provided or value given on the 25 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. was calculated in accordance with  IFRS 2 Share-based payment as a loss of US$230 million.
The first tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent non-contributory 2015 disposals shares was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea on On 23 April 2015, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd completed the block sale 26 May 2014.
A second tranche comprising 10 per cent Ordinary of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources Ltd and with Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per cent.
As at historical mining cost.
The third tranche of shares comprising 31 December 2015 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltds interest in SouthGobi 7.5 per cent non-contributory shares may be transferred at any time Resources Ltd is no longer consolidated as a subsidiary and has been after 22 April 2016 free of charge.
The remaining two tranches of classified as an available for sale investment.
5 per cent ordinary contributing chares may be acquired by the On 17 June 2015, Rio Tinto disposed of its 77.8 per cent interest in Government of Guinea at market value at any time after 22 April 2026 Murowa Diamonds and 50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd and 22 April 2031 respectively.
Sengwa to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
2013 disposals Rio Tinto completed the sale of ECL to Fives on 9 July 2015 and the sale On 1 December 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 80 per cent of Alesa to Groupe Reel on 24 November 2015. interest in Northparkes Mine to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd for considerationofUS$820million.
Disposals in the cash flow statement are presented net of cash on disposal and after adjusting for working capital and other items as On 23 May 2013, the initial public offering of Constellium formerly Alcan specified under the relevant sale agreements.
Engineered Products was launched, resulting in Rio Tinto reducing its holding from 36.6 per cent to 27.5 per cent.
Rio Tinto subsequently 2014 disposals divested the remainder of its holding in two further tranches.
Total On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent consideration from these transactions was US$671 million, inclusive interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal for US$1,015 million of a special dividend and proceeds from sale of Rio Tintos equity before finalisation of net debt and working capital adjustments.
The net shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity assets and liabilities of Clermont were included within assets and accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Groups liabilities of disposal groups held for sale in the Group balance sheet at cash flow statement.
On 31 July 2013 Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 57.7 per cent interest On7October2014,  in Palabora Mining Company for US$373 million.
The purchaser was a Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other consortium comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the projects in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron & Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million before net debt and working Steel Group.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd, a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in Sral to Tinto, completed the sale of its 50 per cent interest in Altynalmas Gold Norsk Hydro Aluminium ASA on 31 October 2014 and the sale of its and 57 per cent interest in Inova Resources Limited on 29 November 46.67 per cent share in Alucam to the Government of Cameroon on 2013 and 1 November 2013 respectively.
Sumeru Gold B. V. 31 December 2014. consideration paid of US$ 235 million and Shanxi Donghui Coal On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an Coking & Chemicals Group Co. consideration paid of US$81 million Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea and agreed to were the respective buyers.
transfer an equity interest in Simfer S. A. to the state.
The arrangement On 17 July 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest allows the Government of Guinea to acquire equity interests of up to in the Eagle nickel-copper project to Lundin Mining Corporation for 25 per cent of Simfer S. A. at a discount to fair value, and a further considerationofUS$315million.
10 per cent at full fair value.
Arrangements to transfer an interest in a subsidiary undertaking at a discount to fair value are considered to be a 164 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 38 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: Restated Restated 2015 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 10,590 11,090 14,061 Long-term incentive plans 2,118 3,444 7,225 12,708 14,534 21,286 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 52 55 108  1 5,888 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and During 2015, one director 2014: one: 2013: three accrued retirement members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 2014: comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers one: 2013: two accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local directors was US$6,385,000 2014: US$6,653,000: 2013: currency at the average exchange rate for the year with the exception of US$11,451,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term contribution plans was US$52,000 2014: US$55,000: 2013: US$44,000.
incentive plans, have been translated at the year-end rate.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3, directors was US$6,375,000 2014: US$9,796,000: 2013: on pages 70 to 104.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil 2014: US$nil: 2013: US$64,000.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Groups key management, including directors, wasasfollows: 2015 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits and costs 25,616 30,137 30,696 Post-employment benefits 1,049 1,449 2,741 Share-based payments 17,566 19,676 26,392 44,231 51,262 59,829 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key social security and accident premiums in Canada, the UK and US and management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost 3 on pages 70 to 104. of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,320,000 2014: US$2,870,000: 2013: US$2,897,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration report.
com 165 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 39 Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Audit of the company 4.3 4.0 3.8 Audit of subsidiaries 10.1 10.7 11.5 Total audit 14.4 14.7 15.3 Audit related assurance services 0.9 1.1 1.2 b Other assurance services 0.9 1.0 3.0 Total assurance services 1.8 2.1 4.2 c Tax compliance 0.5 0.4 0.5 c Tax advisory services 0.4 0.5 0.4 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.2 0.1 0.4 services in connection with divestment programme 0.5 Other non-audit services not covered above 1.1 0.3 0.4 Total non-audit services 2.2 1.3 2.2 18.4 18.1 21.7 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries 1.9 2.7 3.0 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.2 0.4 0.3 2.1 3.1 3.3 a The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by joint operations.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements and sustainability assurance.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services include advice on non-recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
40 Related-party transactions Information about material related-party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to sales of alumina to equity accounted units for smelting into aluminium.
2015 2014 2013 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,249 1,835 1,953 Sales to equity accounted units 307 625 1,569 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Net funding of equity accounted units 11 117 88 Balance sheet items US$m US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 4,941 4,868 3,957 Loans to equity accounted units note 20 42 71 94 Loans from equity accounted units note 22 37 52 86 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 315 423 615 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 231 225 290 a Investments in equity accounted units include quasi equity loans.
Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is set out in note 45.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 70 to 104.
Mining assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
Rio Tinto does not have has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989.
Safe access by control over BCL under IFRS, as defined in note 1, as it does not company employees has not been possible since that time and an have the current ability to direct the activities that affect its returns, accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be being the mining and sale of ore from the Panguna mine: it is therefore made.
Considerable funding would be required to recommence not a subsidiary.
operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in In August 2014 the Group announced a strategic review of all options in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude study completed by BCL in 2013 indicated relation to the 53.83 per cent stake in BCL.
an estimated capital requirement of US$5.2 billion to reopen the mine 43 Events after the balance sheet date On January 27, 2016 the Group announced it had reached a binding holds interests of 80 per cent and 55.6 per cent respectively, with agreement for the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets to management rights, in the integrated Mount Thorley and MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd for US$224 million plus royalties.
Warkworth operations: holds a 100 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant project sale The agreement includes a payment on completion of US$83 million, agreed : and two unconditional deferred payments of US$58 million respectively holds 100 percent interest in Coal & Allied Limiteds wholly payable eight and 16 months from completion, a conditional payment owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley.
of US$25 million, and royalties, payable quarterly at two per cent of gross FOB revenue for coal sold from the first 625 million tonnes of run Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter Valley of mine coal equivalent to 474 million tonnes of marketable reserves Operations Joint Operation.
when prices exceed US$72 tonne.
The proceeds of the sale will be used The sale of the Bengalla coal Joint Venture in Australia to New Hope for general corporate purposes.
Corporation Limited for consideration of A$865 million before net debt The restructure of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, which was announced and working capital adjustments completed on 1 March 2016.
As a on 30 September 2015, completed on 3 February 2016.
The restructure result of Rio Tintos assumption of 100 per cent of Coal & Allied, the involved the exchange of a 32.4 per cent interest in Hunter Valley Group will receive all the proceeds from the sale of Bengalla.
Operations mine for a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Except as disclosed above, no significant events were identified after the Industries Limited.
As a 100 percent owner of Coal & Allied, Rio Tinto: balance sheet date.
holds a 67.6 per cent interest with management rights in the Hunter Valley Operations mine: 44 Share based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a number of share-based incentive plans, which are described in detail in the remuneration report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based incentive plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, .
Liability at the Charge recognised for the year end of the year 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 128 152 142 Cash-settled plans 1 1 Total 128 152 142 1 1 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 167 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 44 Share-based payments continued The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors expectations Share Savings Plans for the proportion vesting.
As at 31 December 2015 it was assumed Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for 100 per cent of awards subject to the condition would vest.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was prior to vesting are assumed at three per cent per annum of outstanding estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including awards 2014: three per cent per annum.
allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
Management Share Plans Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as The Management Share Plans were introduced in 2007 to provide these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plans in conditional share-based awards to management.
Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
In general, the have vested.
awards will be settled in equity, including the dividends accumulated Share Option Plans from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled  based payment transactions.
Plans in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of transactions.
The performance conditions in relation to total shareholder dividends.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at seven per cent return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for per annum of outstanding awards 2014: seven per cent per annum.
these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR and Bonus Deferral Plans that of the Euromoney Global Mining Index, formerly the HSBC Global Mining Index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index The Bonus Deferral Plans were originally introduced in 2009 for the was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to group executives and for other executives.
Awards have been made each year since 2011 made in respect of the 2010 bonus for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans as the long executive directors and product group executives and 25 per cent of the term incentive plan arrangements have been simplified and awards are bonuses for other executives.
Allchargeshave been incurred as the remaining unvested awards vested during 2015.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto plc are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to .
The fair value of each award These awards are settled in equity.
 small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures prior to Performance Share Plans vesting are assumed at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards 2014: three per cent per annum.
and therefore the awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment Global Employee Share Plans transactions.
The Companies provide matching shares for each share purchased.
The For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation being met.
These awards are settled in equity.
The fair value of each model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
One-third of matching share on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the the awards issued since 2013 must satisfy an earnings target relative to date of purchase.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at five per ten global mining comparators for vesting.
As this is a non-market cent per annum of outstanding awards 2014: five per cent per annum.
Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans Share Savings Plans and Share Option Plans at 31 December 2015 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise remaining value price per contractual 2015 Options outstanding at 31 December 2015 Number option A$ life Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan exercise price 24 29 53,375 28.06 1.1 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan exercise price A$55 A$60 141,782 A$56.97 1.1 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 16 43 756,276 31.82 4.7 1 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$33 A$77 371,353 A$54.37 2.7 1 1,322,786 2 As at 31 December 2014 there were 2,798,923 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$16 million.
Options exercisable at 31 December 2015 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 16 43 756,276 31.82 4.7 1 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$33 A$77 371,353 A$54.37 2.7 1 1,127,629 2 168 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
The Management Share Plans, Performance Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan together represent 99 per cent 2014: 93 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2015.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2015 was less than US$1 million 2014: less than US$1 million.
com 169 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 26,576 Rio Tinto plc and 7,684 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2015 2014: 16,985 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding.
45 Post-retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post-retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Groups liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend on the level of future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution amount per year of service.
A Benefits Governance Committee is arrangements instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
unionised employees, some plans remain open.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in The Group does not usually participate in multi-employer plans in which Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
TheGroups The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Foundation disclosures are provided in this note.
Board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees Pension plans and by retirees.
The majority of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations are in In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The defined benefit sections are In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final closed to new entrants.
average pay and are closed to new entrants.
Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of which are included in the figures below.
 Post-retirement healthcare plans remain open at present.
During 2015 agreement was reached with the Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide unions to close the largest plan to new entrants with effect from dates in health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some 2016 and 2017.
New employees will instead join an arrangement which cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is defined contribution from the Groups perspective, with any required is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements additional funding being provided by employees.
The plans are subject to are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant provinces and territories predominantly Quebec.
Pension Plan assets Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a manner that is compliant with the relevant regulations.
The Pension diversified range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently, the Committees generally have a number of members appointed by the funding level of the pension plans is affected by movements in the level sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group there is also an independent Committee member.
monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates and equity markets and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a value at risk The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final approach.
These measures are considered when deciding whether pay and are closed to new members.
New employees are admitted to significant changes in investment strategy are required.
The plans are subject to the regulatory  requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
Trustees are responsible determine the optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Groups for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with UK tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and regulations.
Trustee boards have a number of directors appointed by the the views of the pension committees and trustee boards who are legally sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases responsible for the investments of the plans.
In Canada, the UK and there is also an independent trustee director.
Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure that the A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US investment policy adopted is consistent with the Groups tolerance for entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average risk.
In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy, pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees subject to the local investment regulations.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2015 2014 Equities 37.7% 39.1% Quoted 33.3% 35.4% Private 4.4% 3.7% Bonds 48.0% 46.9% Government fixed income 13.5% 13.6% Government inflation-linked 12.8% 11.8% Corporate and other publicly quoted 20.8% 20.7% Private 0.9% 0.8% Property 10.8% 10.1% Quoted property funds 6.5% 6.0% Unquoted property funds 4.3% 4.0% Directly held property 0.0% 0.1% Qualifying insurance policies 0.6% 0.5% Cash & other 2.9% 3.4% 100.0% 100.0%  The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups properties.
securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees The holdings of Cash & other are predominantly cash and short-term and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities money market instruments.
within the plans is US$23 million 2014: US$22 million.
Investments in private equity, private debt, and property are less liquid The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of pension plans.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond quoted bonds are usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly in managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of North America.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: 2015 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 22% 21% 22% 25% 25% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 2% 11% 11% 11% Proportion relating to retirees 66% 77% 67% 64% 64% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average duration of obligations years 13.5 12.6 13.4 13.9 13.3 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: 2015 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 44% 44% 44% 46% 45% UK 31% 2% 29% 27% 27% US 13% 53% 15% 15% 14% Switzerland 6% 0% 6% 5% 6% Eurozone 4% 0% 4% 4% 5% Australia 1% 0% 1% 2% 2% Other 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 171 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 45 Post-retirement benefits continued Total expense recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 173 11 184 196 284 Past service income 116 28 144 66 1 Curtailment gains losses 5 8 13 1 44 Settlement gains 11 11 22 2 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 77 36 113 133 209 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 21 21 19 22 Total defined benefit expense 139 11 150 261 468 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 287 2 289 329 337 Total expense recognised in the income statement 426 13 439 590 805 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net previous years.
The settlement gains in 2015, 2014 and 2013 relate operating costs.
In 2015, US$nil pre-tax of curtailment and settlement mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested participants gains have been excluded from underlying earnings 2014: US$2 million, were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of their future 2013: US$21 million, both relating to divestments.
The pension and other benefits past service income in 2015 relate to design changes in Canada and to changes to postThe curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount retirement medical plans in the US.
The past service income during 2014 reductions at various operations and divestments during 2015 and relates to design changes to post-retirement medical plans in the US.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2015 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial gains losses 548 1,853 1,092 Return on assets net of interest on assets 79 1,127 1,212 Loss on application of asset ceiling 8 9 44 Total gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 619 735 2,260 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 13,642 13,642 15,219 Present value of obligations funded 14,443 14,443 16,869 Present value of obligations unfunded 818 862 1,680 2,030 Present value of obligations total 15,261 862 16,123 18,899 Effect of asset ceiling 49 49 53 Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 1,668 862 2,530 3,733 Comprising: Deficits 2,260 862 3,122 4,086 Surpluses 592 592 353 Net deficits on pension plans 1,668 1,668 2,686 Unfunded post-retirement healthcare obligation 862 862 1,047 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as minimum is negotiated with the local trustee or foundation in accordance Trade and other receivables.
See note 18. with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions including postinto account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax retirement benefits.
See note 26. situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that Funding policy and contributions to plans the Group might obtain by accelerating contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum level required in each country.
In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland the 2015 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Contributions to defined benefit plans 270 58 328 353 734 Contributions to defined contribution plans 270 2 272 310 317 Contributions to industry-wide plans 17 17 19 20 Total 557 60 617 682 1,071 172 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Contributions to defined benefit pension plans are kept under regular are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the benefit payments net of participant contributions.
The Groups Groups wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum contributions are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2015. funding requirements.
As contributions to many plans are reviewed Movements in the net defined benefit liability on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2016 and subsequent A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown years cannot be determined precisely in advance.
Contributions to in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed defined benefit pension plans for 2016 are estimated to be around analysis of the movements in the present value of the obligations, the US$280 million but may be higher or lower than this.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit liability at the start of the year 2,686 1,047 3,733 3,309 Amounts recognised in Income 139 11 150 261 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income 562 57 619 735 Employer contributions 270 58 328 353 Arrangements divested 25 25 13 Currency exchange rate movements 300 81 381 206 Net defined benefit liability at the end of the year 1,668 862 2,530 3,733 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation Present value of obligation at the start of the year 17,852 1,047 18,899 18,792 Current employer service costs 173 11 184 196 Past service income 116 28 144 66 Curtailments 58 13 1 Settlements 52 52 326 Interest on obligation 579 36 615 783 Contributions by plan participants 25 3 28 37 Benefits paid 934 61 995 1,042 Experience gain 77 30 107 56 Changes in financial assumptions gain loss 423 23 446 1,718 Changes in demographic assumptions loss gain 9 4 5 191 Arrangements divested 46 46 58 Currency exchange rate gain 1,724 81 1,805 1,271 Present value of obligation at the end of the year 15,261 862 16,123 18,899 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 15,219 15,219 15,527 Settlements 41 41 304 Interest on assets 506 506 655 Contributions by plan participants 25 3 28 37 Contributions by employer 270 58 328 353 Benefits paid 934 61 995 1,042 Non-investment expenses 21 21 19 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 79 79 1,127 Arrangements divested 21 21 45 Currency exchange rate loss 1,440 1,440 1,070 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,642 13,642 15,219 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 173 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 45 Post-retirement benefits continued 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the effect of the asset ceiling Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year 53 53 44 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 4 4 5 Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 8 8 9 Currency exchange rate gain 16 16 5 Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 49 49 53 In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the boards and similar bodies to augment or wind up a plan.
Where such Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules powers are unilateral, the Group does not consider a refund to be specific to each pension plan.
The calculation takes into account any available at the end of the life of a plan.
Where the plan rules and minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus, the whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a whether a refund of surplus may be available.
In considering whether any refund will only be available many years in the future.
 Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below: Other mainly a Canada UK US Switzerland Eurozone Australia Africa At 31 December 2015 Discount rate 3.9% 3.7% 4.2% 0.8% 2.1% 4.0% 10.7% b Inflation 1.7% 3.0% 2.1% 1.1% 1.7% 2.1% 8.5% Rate of increase in pensions 0.4% 2.6% 0.0% 1.6% 2.1% 8.5% Rate of increase in salaries 3.0% 3.7% 3.6% 2.1% 2.3% 4.0% 10.5% At 31 December 2014 Discount rate 3.9% 3.4% 3.8% 0.9% 1.8% 2.7% 9.0% b Inflation 1.8% 3.0% 2.1% 1.3% 1.7% 2.1% 7.1% Rate of increase in pensions 0.7% 2.6% 0.0% 1.5% 2.1% 7.1% Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% 3.8% 3.6% 2.3% 2.1% 4.0% 9.1% a The assumptions vary by location for the Other plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
b The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2015 was 2.0 per cent 2014: 2.0 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are Sensitivity predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.1 per cent  2014: 3.9 per cent : medical trend rate: 8.4 per cent reducing to 5.1 per the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments cent by the year 2023 broadly on a straight line basis 2014: 6.7 per cent, and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity of reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022 : claims costs based on the obligations to changes in assumptions, we calculate what the individual company experience.
The difference between this figure and the For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post-retirement figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of this sensitivity mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this approach is date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for 2014: 26 years and that a man aged 60 in 2035 would have a weighted larger changes in the assumptions.
The sensitivity to inflation includes average expected future lifetime of 28 years 2014: 28 years.
the impact on pension increases, which are generally linked to inflation where they are granted.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2015 2014 Approximate Approximate increase decrease increase decrease in obligations in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 960 50 1,166 63 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,025 54 1,250 68 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 505 17 653 23 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 481 14 620 20 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 77 2 100 2 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 75 2 97 2 Demographic allowance for future Participants assumed to have the mortality improvements in longevity rates of individuals who are one year older 435 15 477 18 Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 435 15 477 18 Medical costs trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points 31 41 decrease of 1.0 percentage points 26 35 Information on the sensitivity of the Groups earnings to the main assumptions is set out in note 1 Critical accounting policies and estimates section x on page 124.
46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2015 2014 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 6,034 16,523 Non-current assets 11,525 11,302 Total assets 17,559 27,825 Liabilities Current liabilities 616 8,230 Non-current liabilities 4,833 38 Total liabilities 5,449 8,268 Net assets 12,110 19,557 Shareholders equity Share capital 4,004 4,113 Other reserves 373 377 Retained earnings 7,733 15,067 Total equity 12,110 19,557 Profit of the parent company 6,532 9,121 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 6,532 9,122 Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed external debt held by Rio Tinto Group Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences entities which totalled A$0.1 billion at 31 December 2015 31 December between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
2014: A$0.1 billion and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of A$18 million at Rio Tinto Limited guarantees 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: A$6 million.
Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of certain Group companies.
obligations of Rio Tinto Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
A$26.6 billion at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: A$25.4 billion : in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was A$10.3 billion at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: A$9.1 billion.
com 175 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings , associated undertakings and joint ventures as defined in Regulation 7 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
All subsidiaries are included in the Group consolidation.
Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies 1043802 Ontario Ltd: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 46106 YUKON INC: Canada CAD Common shares 100 46117 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 CAD Preferred shares 100 535630 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 CAD Preferred shares 100 7999674 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 9230556 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 CAD Preferred shares 100 9539549 CANADA INC. : Canada US$ Common shares 100 AGM Holding Company Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Alumina Ltda.
: Brazil BRL1.00 Quota shares 100 Alcan Aluminium UK Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Asia Limited: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Betriebsund  GmbH: Germany 51.13 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Chemicals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Composites Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Corporation: United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Farms Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Finances USA LLC: United States US$1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Gove Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Gove Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class A Shares 100 AUD Class B Shares 100 Alcan Gove Superannuation Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Holdings Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class A Shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Holdings Europe B. V. : Netherlands 455.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Holdings Nederland B. V. : Netherlands 4,555.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF0.01 Registered Shares 100 Alcan International Network U. S. A. Inc. : United States US$ Ordinary shares 100 Alcan  GmbH: Germany 51.12918 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Management Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. : China US$ Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Management Services Canada Limited Societe fide Services fide Gestion Alcan Canada Limitee: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Northern Territory Alumina Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Packaging Canada Limited: Canada CAD0.11 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Packaging Mhltal Gmbh & Co. KG: Germany 51.129188 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Primary Metal Australia Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Primary Products Company LLC: United States US$ Units shares 100 Alcan Primary Products Corporation: United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Realty Limited Societe Immobiliere Alcan Limitee: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan South Pacific Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Trading AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Registered shares 100 Aluminium & Chemie Rotterdam B. V. : Netherlands 4,555.00 Ordinary shares 65.8 Aluminium Dunkerque: France 16.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aluminium Pechiney: France 16.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aluminum Company of Canada Limited Aluminium du Canada Limitee: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 Alusuisse Servicios S. A. Panama: Panama PAB1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Alusuisse Servicios S. A. Venezuela: Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1.00 Ordinary shares 100 AML Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AML Properties Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Anglesey Aluminium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 176 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 AP Service: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aquatic Holdings Mauritius Limited: Mauritius US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Argyle Diamond Mines Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Argyle Diamonds 2013 Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Argyle Diamonds Limited: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 AUD Class B Shares 100 Ashton Canada Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Ashton Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Ashton Nominees Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Asia Gold Mongolia LLC: Mongolia MNT1,250.00 Common shares 100 Asia Naran Bulag LLC: Mongolia MNT1,000.00 Common shares 100 a Australian Coal Holdings Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 Australian Coal Resources Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Australian Mining & Smelting Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Balkhash Saryshagan LLP: Kazakhstan a BaumePty.
Limited:Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Beasley River Management Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Beasley River Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class Shares 100 Beasley River Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Bektau B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary shares 75 Black Hill Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Blair Athol Coal Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Blair Athol Joint Venture: Australia Borax Espaa, S. A. : Spain 150.00 Ordinary shares 100 Borax Europe Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 Borax Francais: France 2.75 Ordinary shares 100 Borax Malaysia Sdn Bhd: Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Borax Rotterdam N. V. : Netherlands 453.78 Ordinary shares 100 Bougainville Copper Foundation Ltd: Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Bougainville Copper Limited: Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 53.8 Boyne Smelters Limited: Australia AUD A1 Class shares 100 AUD A2 Class shares 100 AUD B1 Class shares 100 British Alcan Aluminium Plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 British Alcan Overseas Investments Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Canning Resources Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Cape Bougainville Joint Venture: Australia Capricorn Diamonds Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Carbone Savoie: France 7.70 Ordinary shares 100 Carol Lake Company Ltd. : Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Carrier Holdings Limited: Mauritius US$1.00 Management Share shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Catherine Hill Bay Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Cathjoh Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Champlain Reinsurance Company Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1.23 Registered Shares 100 Channar Finance Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Channar Financial Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Channar Management Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Channar Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Channar Security Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 177 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Chlor Alkali Unit Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary SGD shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary USD shares 68.4 CIA.
Inmobiliaria e Inversiones Cosmos S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 CNA Bengalla Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CNA Bengalla Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 CNA Investments UK Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 CNA Resources Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Ordinary shares 100 AUD B Ordinary shares 100 CNA Resources Limited: Australia AUD A Ordinary shares 100 AUD B Ordinary shares 100 CNA Sub Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 CNA UK Limited: United Kingdom US$0.01 Ordinary Bearer shares 100 CNA Warkworth Australasia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 CNA Warkworth Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Coal & Allied Industries Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 89.8 Coal & Allied Mining Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Coal & Allied Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Compagnie Gnrale Dlectrolyse Du Palais: France 0.94 Ordinary shares 100 Compania fide Transmision Sierraoriente S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Corporation fide Pche Ste-Marguerite Inc. : Canada CAD10.00 Ordinary shares 96.8 CRA Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 a CRA Investments Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a CRA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Dampier Salt Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary $1.00257 shares 68.4 AUD Ordinary $1.88 on 31 01 2013 shares 68.4 Darex Capital, Inc. : Panama US$0.01 Par Value One Cent shares 100 Daybreak Development LLC: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 c Daybreak Property Holdings LLC: United States Daybreak Secondary Water Distribution Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 51.2 Daybreak Water Company: United States US$0.01 Class A Common shares 100 US$0.01 Class B Common shares 2.5 Daybreak Water Holding LLC: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 DB Medical I LLC: United States US$ Units shares 100 c DBVC1 LLC: United States d Diamond Producers Association Limited : United Kingdom Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Dolphin Properties Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a East Kalimantan Coal Pte.
Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Eastland Management Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 a Electric Power Generation Limited: New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Emirates Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Energy Resources of Australia Ltd: Australia AUD A Class Ordinary shares 68.4 a Falcon Insurance Ltd: Malta US$1.00 Class A Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Class B shares 100 Flambeau Mining Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 c Fondation Rio Tinto: Guinea France Aluminium Recyclage Sa: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 60 a Fundsprops Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Gava Exploration Limited Liability Company: Uzbekistan Gladstone Infrastructure Pty Ltd Australia AUD Class G Redeemable Preference shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 178 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Gove Aluminium Ltd: Australia AUD A Non Redeemable Preferece shares 100 AUD A Redeemable Preference Shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Gove Joint Venture the : Australia GPS Energy Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 GPS Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 GPS Power Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Green Mountain Mining Venture: United States Gulf Power Company La Compagnie Gulf Power: Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Gumala Advisory Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 51 Gwandalan Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hail Creek Coal Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hail Creek Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 82 Hamersley Associated Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley HMS Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Hamersley Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Hamersley Iron Yandi Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class B Shares 100 AUD Class C shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley Resources Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Z Class Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley WA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Henlopen Manufacturing Co. Inc. : United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Heruga Exploration LLC: Mongolia MNT12,500.00 Common shares 100 High Purity Iron Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common Shares 100 a HImet Corporation Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 HIsmelt Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 HIsmelt Corporation Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 Howmet Insurance Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 HV Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 HVO Coal Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 IAL Holdings Singapore Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 IEA Coal Research Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 IEA Environmental Projects Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 IGP Holding Company Ltd: Virgin Islands, British USD Ordinary shares 100 Industrias Metalicas Castello S. A. : Spain 6.01 Ordinary shares 100 Integrity Land and Cattle LLC: United States US$ Units shares 100 Iron Ore Company of Canada: United States US$1,000.00 Series A shares 91.4 US$1,000.00 Series E shares 100 US$1,000.00 Series F shares 100 Itallumina Srl: Italy 1.00 Quotas shares 100 Johcath Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Juna Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Kalamah Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Kalimantan Gold Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Kalteng Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD A Class Ordinary shares 100 AUD Class B Fully Paid $1.00 13 01 2003 shares 100 AUD Class B Paid to $0.12 02 09 2005 shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Kelian Investment Limited: Virgin Islands, British Kelian Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Kembla Coal & Coke Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 179 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Kennecott Barneys Canyon Mining Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Exploration Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Exploration Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kennecott Holdings Corporation: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Land Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 c Kennecott Land Investment Company LLC: United States Kennecott Management Services Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Molybdenum Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Nevada Copper Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Ridgeway Mining Company: United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 Kennecott Royalty Company: United States US$100.00 Common shares 100 Kennecott Services Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Uranium Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Kennecott Utah Copper LLC: United States US$ Units shares 100 Kennecott Water Distribution LLC: United States US$ Ordinary shares 100 Kestrel Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Kestrel Coal Sales Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Kirganik LLC: Russian Federation c Korgantas LLP: Kazakhstan a Kutaibar Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Lao Sanxai Minerals Company Limited: Lao Peoples Democratic Republic US$1.00 Ordinary shares 70 Lawson Mardon Flexible Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Lawson Mardon Smith Brothers Ltd. : United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Lazurnoe Limited Liability Company: Russian Federation Lower Hunter Land Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Magma Arizona Railroad Company: United States US$100.00 Common shares 99.9 Malmikaivos Oy: Finland 168.18793 Ordinary shares 100 Metallwerke Refonda AG: Switzerland CHF125.00 Bearer shares 100 Metals & Minerals Insurance Pte.
Limited: Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 SGD Redeemable Preference Shares 100 Miller Pohang Coal Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Minera Kennecott, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1.00 Series B shares 100 Minera Tinyacclla SA: Peru PEN1.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Minmi Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Mitchell Plateau Bauxite Co. Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Mitchell Plateau Joint Venture: Australia Mongolian Gas and Exploration LLC: Mongolia US$1.00 Common shares 100 Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Mount Thorley Co Venture: Australia Mount Thorley Coal Loading Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 72.2 Mount Thorley Operations Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Movele SARL US$ Ordinary shares 100 US$ Preferred shares 100 Mutamba Mineral Sands S. A. : Mozambique MZN100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Namoi Valley Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 NBH Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Nhulunbuy Corporation Limited Australia Nords Wharf Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Norgold Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100 180 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies North Gold W. A. Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100 North Insurances Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 North IOC Bermuda Holdings Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 North IOC Bermuda Limited: Bermuda US$143.641269 Class A Ordinary Shares US$143.64126903 100 US$1.00 Ordinary US$1.00 shares 100 US$100,000.00 Preferred Shares US$100,000 100 North IOC Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 North Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 North Mining Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Redeemable Preference shares 100 Northern Rhondda Collieries Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Novacoal Australia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Nozalela Mineral Sands Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Oaklands Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Olkhovoe LLC: Russian Federation Orian Holding Corp: Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Common shares 100 Oyu Tolgoi Netherlands BV: Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium New Zealand Limited: New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium Bell Bay Sales Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Pacific Aluminium Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Coast Mines, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 a Pacific Resource Investments Limited: Cayman Islands US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pandrew Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Aviatube Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Btiment: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Bcancour, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Cast Plate, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Consolidated Australia Pty Limited: Australia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Preference Shares 100 Pechiney Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi: Turkey TRY25.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Holdings, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Pechiney Metals LLC: United States Pechiney Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Pechiney Plastic Packaging Canada Inc. : Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc. : United States US$ Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Resources Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Sales Corporation: United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Servicios: Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pechiney Vnzuela, S. A. : Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEB1,000.00 A shares 100 VEB10,000.00 B shares 100 Peko Exploration Pty Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Peko-Wallsend Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Project Generation Group Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 PSZ Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 PT Alcan Packaging Flexipack: Indonesia IDR1,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 PT Hutan Lindung Kelian Lestari: Indonesia IDR9,803.00 Ordinary shares 99 PT Kelian Equatorial Mining: Indonesia IDR1,080.00 Ordinary shares 90 PT Mitra Sumbawa Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 PT Rikit Alas Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 PT Rio Tinto Consultants: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 181 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies PT Rio Tinto Exploration: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 PT Rio Tinto Indonesia: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 PT Rio Tinto Irja: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 QIT Madagascar Minerals Ltd: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 QIT Madagascar Minerals SA: Madagascar US$10.00 Certificats dinvestissement shares 100 US$10.00 Common Shares 80 QMP Metal Powders Suzhou Ltd: China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway Company Compagnie fide Chemin fide Fer du Littoral Nord fide Quebec et du Labrador Inc. : Canada CAD27.59 Ordinary shares 100 Queensland Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Qumica e Metalrgica Mequital Ltda.
: Brazil BRL Ordinary shares 100 R. W. Miller Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Ranges Management Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Ranges Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Resolution Copper Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 c Resolution Copper Mining LLC: United StatesRichards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 99.9 ZAR0.01 B Preference shares 100 ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton Preference shares 100 Richards Bay Mining Holdings Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 Richards Bay Prefco Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR0.01 Prefence shares 100 Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 100 ZAR0.01 B Preference shares 100 ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton Preference shares 100 Richards Bay Titanium Holdings Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 Rio fide Contas Desenvolvimentos Minerais Ltda: Brazil BRL Quota shares 100 c Rio Sava Exploration DOO: Serbia - a Rio Tinto Commercial Paper Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Hong Kong Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Mauritius Pty Limited: Mauritius US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Advisory Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Fund Inc. : Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Iceland Ltd: Iceland ISK1.00 Registered shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. : Canada CAD COMMON shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltd. Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltee: Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Middle East DMCC: United Arab Emirates AED1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Technology Pty Ltd: Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Rio Tinto Almazpoisk LLC: Russian FederationRio Tinto Aluminium Bell Bay Limited: Australia AUD 7.5% Cumulative Preference shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto America Holdings Inc. : United States US$0.01 Class A Common shares 100 US$100.00 Series A Preferred Stock shares 100 Rio Tinto America Inc. : United States US$100.00 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Asia Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Asia Pty.
: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 182 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Rio Tinto AuM Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Bahia Holdings Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Base Metals Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Brazilian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Brazilian Investments Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Exploration Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Operation Management Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Inc: Canada CAD Class B Shares 100 CAD Class C Shares 100 CAD Class D Shares 100 CAD Class J shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Management Inc. Rio Tinto Gestion Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Common Shares 100 CAD Preferred shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation: Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Charters Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Coal Clermont Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Coal NSW Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary Fully Paid Share shares 100 Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Coal Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Coal NSW Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Congo RDC SARL: Congo, The Democratic Republic of the US$200.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Desenvolvimentos Minerais LTDA.
: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 100 Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holding Inc. : Canada CAD Class A dividend rights shares 100 CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C voting rights shares 100 CAD Class P1 Preferred shares 100 Rio Tinto Diamonds Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Diamonds Netherlands B. V. : Netherlands 500.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Diamonds NV: Belgium Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Eastern Investments B. V. : Netherlands 453.78 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Escondida Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 b Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration Asia Holdings Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Exploration PNG Limited: Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration and Mining India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Class A shares 100 CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C shares 100 CAD Class D shares 100 CAD Class E Preferred shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration DRC Orientale Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration Gabon SA: Gabon XAF10,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Rio Tinto Exploration Kazakhstan LLP: Kazakhstan 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 183 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies a Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 AUD Class C shares 100 AUD Class C Shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration Zambia Limited: Zambia ZMW1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. : Canada CAD Class B Preference shares 100 CAD Common shares 100 CAD0.01 Preferred Shares 100 Rio Tinto FH Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shares 100 Rio Tinto Finance Canada Inc.
Finances Rio Tinto Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Finance Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Finance plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto France S. A. S. : France 15.25 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Global Employment Company Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Guine S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 b Rio Tinto Holdings Jersey Limited: Jersey US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Holdings LLC: Mongolia MNT20,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy LLC: United States Rio Tinto ICT Limited: Cyprus US$10.00 Class A Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Indonesian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 b Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto International Trading Shanghai Co Ltd: China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Investments Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Investments One Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Investments Two Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium GmbH: Germany c Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Holdings GmbH: Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada Inc. Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Iron Ore Europe S. A. S. : France 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Iron Ore Trading China Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Japan Ltd: Japan JPY500.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Limited: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Korea Ltd: Korea, Republic of KRW10,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Logistic Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto London Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Management Services South Africa Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Marketing Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Marketing Services Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Medical Plan Trustees Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 184 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Rio Tinto Metals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Minera Peru Limitada SAC: Peru PEN100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Mineracao do Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL1.00 Quotas shares 100 Rio Tinto Minerals Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary SGD shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary USD shares 100 Rio Tinto Minerals Development Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Minerals Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration S. A. C. : Peru PEN0.50 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Namibian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Nickel Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Nominees Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Orissa Mining Private Ltd: India INR100.00 Ordinary shares 51 Rio Tinto OT Management Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Overseas Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 b Rio Tinto Pension Investments Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Peru Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto PNG Limited: Papua New Guinea PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Potash Management Inc. Rio Tinto Potasse Management Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Procurement Singapore Pte Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SGD1.00 Preference Shares 100 Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Management Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings General Partner Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 c Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings Limited Partnership: Canada Rio Tinto Services Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 a Rio Tinto Services Limited: Australia AUD Class Z shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Severo Zapad Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Shared Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Shipping Asia Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Shipping Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Shipping Pty.
: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Simfer UK Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary SGD shares 100 US$ Ordinary USD shares 100 Rio Tinto Sohar Logistics LLC: Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 70 Rio Tinto South East Asia Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Rio Tinto Staff Fund Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Sulawesi Holdings Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Technological Resources Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Rio Tinto Technological Resources UK Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. : China US$ Capital Contribution shares 100 Rio Tinto Uranium Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Uranium Services Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Vostok Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Western Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Riversdale Anthracite Colliery Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 74 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 185 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Riversdale Connections Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Riversdale Holdings Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Robe River Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Robe River Mining Co. Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD A shares 40 AUD B shares 76.4 Rocklea Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rssing Uranium Limited: Namibia NAD1.00 B Shares 71.2 NAD0.10 C Shares 70.6 RTA AAL Australia Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary 1 shares 100 RTA Boyne Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco 1 Limited: United Kingdom US$0.0001 Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco 4 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$0.732815 Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco 7 Limited: United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A Preference Shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary Shares 100 RTA Holdco 8 Limited: United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A Preference shares 100 US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco Australia 1 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco Australia 3 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco Australia 5 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Holdco Australia 6 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Pacific Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Resources Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 AUD Class B shares 100 RTA Smelter Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Weipa Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTA Yarwun Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTAlcan 1 LLC: United States US$ Class A Preferred shares 100 US$ Common shares 100 RTAlcan 2 LLC: United States US$ Common shares 100 RTAlcan 3 LLC: United States US$ Common shares 100 a RTLDS Aus Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 RTLDS UK Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 RTMDC LLC: Mongolia MNT1,240.00 Common shares 100 RTPDS Aus Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Saryarka B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary shares 75 Savoie Services Y. K. : Japan JPY50,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Scheuch Unterstuetzungskasse GmbH: Germany 51.129 Ordinary shares 100 SGLS LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common shares 100 Simfer Jersey Finance 1 Ltd: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 100 Simfer Jersey Finance 2 Ltd: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53 Simfer Jersey Limited: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53 Simfer Jersey Nominee Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SIMFER S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 Ordinary shares 87.9 Singapore Metals Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 Skeleton Coast Diamonds Limited: Namibia NAD2.00 Ordinary shares 100 Skymont Corporation: United States US$ Common shares 100 186 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Socit fide Financement Des Risques Industriels: Luxembourg Ordinary shares 100 Socit Dentreprises, Carrires Et Mines fide LEsterel: France 9.33 Ordinary shares 100 Socit Gnrale fide Recherches et dexploitations Minires: France 0.02 Ordinary shares 100 Socit Immobilire Alpes Provence: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Socit Minire Et fide Participations Guine-Alusuisse : Guinea Socit Port DEhoala S. A. : Madagascar US$100.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Sohio Western Mining Company: United States US$100.00 common shares 100 Southern Copper Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 AUD B shares 100 AUD Non Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Spinacia Holdings Limited: Cyprus 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 c Swift Current Land & Cattle LLC: United States Swiss Aluminium Australia Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Stock Unit Shares A 100 AUD Stock Unit Shares B 100 AUD Stock Unit Shares C 100 TBAC Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Technological Resources Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 AUD B shares 100 a The Barrier Corporation Vic.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 c The Kelian Community and Forest Protection Trust: Singapore The Pyrites Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 The Roberval and Saguenay Railway Company La Compagnie du Chemin fide Fer Roberval Saguenay: Canada CAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100 CAD100.00 Preference shares 6% NonCumulative 100 The Zinc Corporation Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Z Class Ordinary shares 100 Thos.
W. Ward Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 THR Aruba Holdings LLC A. V. V. : Aruba US$1.00 Common shares 100 c THR Delaware Holdings, LLC: United States THR Kharmagtai Pte Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 THR MINES BC LTD. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 US$ Common shares 100 THR Mines Services Co. Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 THR Mongolia Development Inc. : Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Common shares 100 THR OYU TOLGOI LTD. : Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 THR Ulaan Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 Three Crowns Insurance Company Limited: Bermuda 1.00 Common shares 100 Tinto Holdings Australia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Tisand Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 ZAR1,000.00 Cumulative Preference Shares 100 Tomago Aluminium Company Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class A Shares 51.6 Trans Territory Pipeline Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Turquoise Hill Netherlands Cooperatif UA: Netherlands US$ COOP share shares 100 c Turquoise Hill Resources Limited Luxembourg Branch: Luxembourg Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 50.8 Turquoise Hill Resources Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP100.00 Common shares 99.9 Turquoise Hill Resources Singapore Pte Ltd. : Singapore SGD1.00 Common shares 100 U. S. Borax Inc. : United States US$0.10 Common shares 100 c Union Creek Ranch LLC: United States Union Gnrale Industrielle Africaine: Morocco MAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100 a Victoria Technology Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 187 Notes to the 2015 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Subsidiaries %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies a Vostin Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Waste Solutions and Recycling LLC: United States US$ Units shares 100 c West Kutai Foundation Limited: Singapore a Wimmera Industrial Minerals Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Winchester South Development Company Proprietary Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Wyoming Coal Resources Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 Yalleen Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 63.7 Zululand Anthracite Colliery Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 74 Zululand Titanium Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Associated undertakings equity accounted entities %ofshareclassheldby Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class Group companies Alufluor AB: Sweden SEK1,000.00 Ordinary shares 50 Bengalla Coal Sales Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 40 Bengalla Mining Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 40 e CanPacific Potash Inc. : Canada Channar Investment Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Chinalco Rio Tinto Exploration Co. Ltd: China CNY1.00 Capital Contribution Ordinary shares 49 Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary AUD0.18 paid on 25 06 1981 shares 32.1 e DB Trail Crossing, LLC: United States Develor Enterprises Limited: Cyprus 1.71 Ordinary shares 50 Empresa fide Mineracao Finesa Ltda.
: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 49 Enarotali Gold Project Limited: Jersey 0.001 Ordinary shares 25 Fabrica fide Plasticos Mycsa, S. A. : Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of VEF1.00 Common shares 49 Global Hubco BV: Netherlands 1.00 Ordinary shares 33.3 Halco Mining Inc. : United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 45 Half-Tide Marine Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 48.6 Hope Downs Marketing Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class Shares 100 e Hydrogen Energy International LLC: United States Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 44.7 e Minera Escondida Ltda: Chile Mineracao Tabuleiro Ltda: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 48 Northern Land Company Ltd: Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 50 Oyu Tolgoi LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common shares 66 Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 66.9 Procivis Savoie: France 19.00 Ordinary shares 22.1 Rightship Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 33.3 Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. : Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 20 Warkworth Coal Sales Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 Warkworth Mining Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 Warkworth Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 Warkworth Tailings Treatment Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 188 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Joint Ventures proportionately consolidated entities Name of undertaking and country of operation Address of principal place of business Capital % owned by Group Aluminerie Alouette Inc. : Canada 400, Chemin fide la Pointe-Noire, C. P. 1650, Sept-les Qubec G4R 5M9, Canada 40 Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. : Canada 5555 Pierre Thibault Street, PO 30, Becancour, Quebec G0X 1B, Canada 25.2 Bao-HI Ranges Joint Venture: Australia Level 22, 152- 158 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 54 Bengalla Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 32 Channar Mining Joint Venture: Australia Level 22, 152-158 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 60 Consrcio fide Alumnio do Maranho: Brazil Av.
Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira, KM18, Estiva, 65095-604, Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil 10 Diavik Joint Venture: Canada P. O.
Box 2498, 5007-50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P8, Canada 60 Gladstone Power Station Joint Venture: Australia NRG Gladstone Operating Service, Gladstone Power Station, Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia 42.1 Grasberg Joint Venture: Indonesia JI Mandala Raya Selatan, No.
1 Kuala Kencana, Timika, Irian Jaya, 98663, Indonesia 40 Hail Creek Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 82 Hope Downs Joint Venture: Australia Level 22, 152-158 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 50 Kestrel Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 80 New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd: New Zealand Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand 79.4 Pechiney Reynolds Quebec, Inc. : United States 8770 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60631-3657, U. S. A.
50.2 Queensland Alumina Limited: Australia Plant Operations Building, Parsons Point, Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia 80 Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture: Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, PERTH WA 6850, Australia 57.1 Robe River Ore Sales Pty.
Ltd. : Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, PERTH WA 6000, Australia 57.1 Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture: Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2324, Tomago, Australia 51.6 Warkworth Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 44.5 Winchester South Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 75 Winter Road Joint Venture: Canada P. O.
Box 2498, 5007-50th Avenue, Yellowknife 33.3 NT X1A 2P8, Canada Yarraloola Pastoral Co: Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 57.1 Terrace, PERTH WA 6850, Australia a Directly held by Rio Tinto Limited.
b Directly held by Rio Tinto plc.
c Group ownership is held through an interest in capital.
The entity has no classes of shares.
e Group ownership in the associate is held through an interest in capital.
f All joint ventures are governed by a joint venture agreement.
com 189 Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet 2015 2014 As at 31 December Note US$m US$m Fixed assets Investments B 36,180 36,139 36,180 36,139 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiaries C 883 940 Cash at bank and in hand 4 3 887 943 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiaries D 12,079 11,922 Dividends payable 18 17 12,097 11,939 Net current liabilities 11,210 10,996 Total assets less current liabilities 24,970 25,143 Net assets 24,970 25,143 Capital and reserves Calledupsharecapital E 224 230 Share premium account 4,300 4,288 Other reserves F 11,988 11,982 Profit and loss account 8,458 8,643 Equity shareholders funds 24,970 25,143 The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year amounted to US$2,863 million 2014: US$4,821 million.
As permitted by section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes were approved by the directors on 2 March 2016 and the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Rio Tinto plc Registered number: 719885 190 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Company statement of changes in equity Share Profit Share premium Other and loss Total capital account reserves account equity Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 230 4,288 11,982 8,643 25,143 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 2,863 2,863 Dividends 3,119 3,119 Proceeds from issue of shares 12 1 13 Share buy-back 6 6 Share-based payments 70 70 Total 224 4,300 11,988 8,458 24,970 Share Profit Share premium Other and loss Total Capital account reserves account equity Year ended 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 230 4,269 11,982 6,599 23,080 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 4,821 4,821 Dividends 2,857 2,857 Proceeds from issue of shares 19 3 22 Share-based payments 77 77 Total 230 4,288 11,982 8,643 25,143 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 191 Rio Tinto plc continued The key area of judgment that has the most significant effect on the A Principal accounting policies amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for a.
Basis of preparation impairment of investment carrying values.
Rio Tinto plc has transitioned from the previously extant UK Generally c. Currency translation Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to Financial Reporting Items included in the financial statements are measured using the Standard 101 Reduced disclosure framework, FRS 101, for all periods currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company presented.
There were no measurement or recognition adjustments for operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are the Company on the adoption of FRS 101. presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional and The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been prepared presentation currency.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of including the issue of shares, are translated into the functional currency certain financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such concern basis.
transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following recognised in the profit and loss account.
exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 41. details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of d. Investments shareoptions,  Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less accumulated impairment was determined.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement disclosure circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities.
e. Financial guarantees IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the comparative information requirements in respect of expenditure required to settle the present obligation and the amount Paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1. initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of f. Share-based payments financial statements: The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans for 10 d statement of cash flows : Group employees, the details of which are included in the consolidated 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : financial statements note 44.
The fair value of the Companys share 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements,  including cash flow statements : subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the expected 38B-D additional comparative information : vesting period, with a corresponding entry to the profit and loss account reserve.
Payments received from the Companys subsidiaries in respect 111 cash flow statement information : and of these share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in the cost 134-136 capital management disclosures.
The Company uses fair values provided by IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
issued and is not yet effective.
Non-market based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each The requirements of IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is related-party transactions entered into between two or more adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after members of a group.
the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of g. Dividend income estimation uncertainty Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment The preparation of the financial statements requires management to is established.
make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in applying accounting policies and making critical accounting estimates.
h. Treasury shares These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ through the profit and loss account.
B Fixed assets 2015 2014 US$m US$m Investments in Group companies: At 1 January 36,139 36,107 Additions 70 78 Other adjustments 29 46 At 31 December 36,180 36,139 192 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS At 31 December 2015 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries: Country of Percentage Company Principal activity incorporation shareholding Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 47.
C Amounts owed by subsidiaries Amounts owed by subsidiaries includes US$833 million 31 December 2014: US$922 million, which is subject to interest based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Amounts owed to subsidiaries Amounts owed to subsidiaries include US$11,970 million 31 December 2014: US$11,887 million which is subject to interest rates based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
E Share capital 2015 2014 US$m US$m a Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 230 230 b Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 6 At 31 December 224 230 a 21,709 new shares 2014: 971 new shares were issued during the year and 789,887 shares 2014: 1,450,659 shares were reissued from treasury pursuant to share plans.
b During the year 40,912,881 shares 2014: nil were purchased from Rio Tinto Limited and immediately cancelled.
The fair value of financial guarantees has been F Other reserves determined as US$nil 31 December 2014: US$nil.
Other reserves include US$11,936 million which represents the Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares pension funds.
Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay any issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009. contributions due from Group companies participating in these funds in G Guarantees the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements.
The guarantees were not called upon in 2015.
Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group The aggregate of company contributions to these plans in 2015 was companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Group external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt entities as at 31 December 2015 amount to US$328 million Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled 31 December 2014: US$439 million.
Included within this balance is US$19.4 billion at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: US$20.8 US$59 million 31 December 2014: US$59 million in relation to nonbillion.
In addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups wholly owned subsidiaries.
undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: US$7.5 billion.
Rio Tinto plc has provided Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed position of US$275 million at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS a b c Gross revenue EBITDA Net earnings for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December Rio Tinto interest 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 % US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other items 546 755 995 375 593 730 Exploration and evaluation 167 194 168 141 156 145 Net interest 389 161 242 Underlying EBITDA earnings 12,621 19,665 21,509 4,540 9,305 10,217 Items excluded from underlying EBITDA earnings 1 24 563 825 556 5,406 2,778 6,552 EBITDA net loss earnings 12,058 18,840 20,953 866 6,527 3,665 Reconciliation to Group income statement Share of equity accounted unit sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 1,955 2,377 3,404 Depreciation & amortisation in subsidiaries excluding capitalised depreciation 4,553 4,828 4,470 Impairment charges, net of reversals 2,791 221 7,545 Depreciation & amortisation in equity accounted units 462 472 401 Taxation and finance items in equity accounted units 276 759 625 Consolidated sales revenue Profit on ordinary activities before finance items and tax 34,829 47,664 51,171 3,976 12,560 7,912 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Depreciation & o Capital expenditure amortisation Employees p for the year for the year Operating assets for the year ended 31 December ended 31 December as at ended 31 December Rio Tinto interest 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 % US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Number Number Number Add back: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 97 744 57 Total capital expenditure per cash flow statement 4,685 8,162 13,001 Less: Net debt 13,783 12,495 18,055 Less: EAU funded balances excluded from net debt 11 16 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 37,349 46,285 45,886 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 197 Notes to financial information by business unit Business units are classified according to the Groups management asset of TRQ was its interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC and, as such, has structure.
Where presentational revisions are made, comparative been shown combined with Oyu Tolgoi.
The 2014 and 2013 amounts are adjusted accordingly.
comparative periods have been restated to be shown on a consistent basis.
a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity j Includes Rio Tintos 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, through accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries in which Rio Tinto held its beneficial interests in Bengalla, Mount addition to consolidated sales.
Consolidated sales revenue Thorley and Warkworth of 32 per cent, 64 per cent and includes subsidiary sales to equity accounted units which are not 44.5 per cent respectively.
In February 2016, the restructuring of included in gross sales revenue.
the Coal and Allied group completed.
As a result, Rio Tinto now b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to has a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and in Hunter Valley Resources items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income Pty Ltd. Mitsubishi is now a joint venture participant in the Hunter statement in the period.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same Valley Operations Joint Venture.
items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
k On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Rio Tinto c Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the Coal Mozambique RTCM, including its interests in the Benga owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Business unit earnings are stated project, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited.
Zululand before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was retained, is reported within to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include Coal Evaluation projects other.
In February 2016, Rio Tinto signed amounts that are excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
an agreement to dispose of its interest in ZAC.
d Pilbara represents the Groups 100 per cent holding in Hamersley l Includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent and Diavik and 65 per cent holding of Robe River Iron Associates.
Murowa 77.8 per cent was included until its of Robe River Iron Associates is held through a 60 per cent owned disposal to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
subsidiary and therefore the Groups net beneficial interest is m Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane 100 per 53 per cent.
cent, QIT Madagascar Minerals 80 per cent and Richards Bay e Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities Minerals attributable interest of 74 per cent.
between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and n Other Operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interest in the Other integrated operations which in total reflect the results of Gove alumina refinery and Rio Tinto Marine.
the integrated production of aluminium and Other product group items, which relate to other commercial activities.
o Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised f Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible to 40 per cent of material mined as a consequence of expansions assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure g Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi is held indirectly through its 50.8 per of joint operations and equity accounted units.
cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd TRQ which in turn p Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding postowns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which owns the Oyu Tolgoi retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting copper-gold mine.
As at 31 December 2015 the principal asset of net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of nonTRQ was its interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
As at 31 December 2014, controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net TRQs investment in SouthGobi Resources Ltd was classified as an assets of the relevant companies ie inclusive of such companies asset held for sale.
On 23 April 2015, TRQ completed the block sale debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies.
of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources and with further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per cent.
As q In 2015 the Energy product group as presented in previous periods at 31 December 2015 TRQs interest in SouthGobi Resources Ltd is was split with the coal assets taken to the newly formed Copper & no longer consolidated as a subsidiary and has been classified as an Coal product group and the uranium assets to the Diamonds & available for sale investment.
h Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 57.7 per cent interest in r Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2015 comprise Palabora Mining Company on 31 July 2013 and of its 80 per cent Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol coal project, Carbone Savoie, interest in the Northparkes mine on 1 December 2013.
Bengalla, and Molybdenum Autoclave Process assets.
i In the 2014 Annual report, Copper Evaluation projects other Assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2014 included the results of TRQ.
As at 31 December 2015 the principal comprised Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol coal project and SouthGobi Resources Ltd. 198 riotinto.
