Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the parent Companys transactions and disclose with Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate parent Company and of their pro t or loss for that period.
In Governance Statement that complies with that law and preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial those regulations.
statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them integrity of the corporate and financial information included on consistently: the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may prudent: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
