Shareholder information continued Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct the entity, or several foreign persons and any order divestment in cases where relevant withholding tax from foreign remittances of associates would control 40 per cent or more acquisitions or transactions have already dividends, to the extent that they are of the voting power or the potential voting occurred, including where prior notice to the unfranked, and from payments of interest.
The potential voting power Treasurer was not required.
The Takeovers Act in an entity is determined having regard to the does not affect the rights of owners whose Acquisitions of interests in shares, and certain voting shares in the entity that would be on interests are held in compliance with the other equity instruments in Australian issue if all rights whether or not presently legislation.
companies by non-Australian foreign exercisable to be issued voting shares in the persons are subject to review and approval by Limitations on voting and shareholding entity were exercised.
The Takeovers Act also the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, applies to direct investments by foreign Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and there are no limitations imposed by law, government investors, in certain Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
In  circumstances regardless of the size of the broad terms, the Takeovers Act applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, on the rights investment.
Persons who are proposing acquisitions of interests in securities in an of non-residents or foreigners to hold or vote relevant acquisitions or transactions may be Australian entity by a foreign person where, as the Groups ordinary shares or ADRs that required to provide notice to the Treasurer a result, a single foreign person and any would not apply generally to all shareholders.
before proceeding with the acquisition or associate would control 20 per cent or more of transaction.
The Treasurer has the power to the voting power or potential voting power in UK Listing Rules cross reference table The following table contains cross references identifying the location of information required to be disclosed in the Annual report by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report 9.8.
4 1 A statement of any interest capitalised by the Group during the year Note 8 Finance income and finance costs and Note 17 Deferred taxation 9.8.
4 2 Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
4 4 Details of any long-term incentive scheme as required by LR 9.4.
4 5 Details of any arrangement under which a director has waived any emoluments N A 9.8.
4 6 Details of any arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments N A 9.8.
4 7 Details of any allotments of shares by the company for cash not previously authorised by shareholders N A 9.8.
4 8 Details of any allotments of shares for cash by a major subsidiary of the company N A 9.8.
4 9 Details of the participation by the company in any placing made by its parent company N A 9.8.
4 10 Details of any contract of significance with the company in which a director has a material interest: or a contract between the company and a controlling shareholder N A 9.8.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to the company by a controlling shareholder N A 9.8.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Note 11 Dividends 9.8.
4 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends N A 9.8.
