Shareholder information Organisational structure Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA One consequence of the DLC merger is that discovered important mineral deposits, Rio Tinto is subject to a wide range of laws, The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, developed major mining projects and also grew rules and regulatory review across multiple which is registered in England and Wales under through acquisition.
Where these rules differ, company number 719885, and is listed on the RioTinto, asaGroup, aimstocomplywiththe London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through strictest applicable level.
which is registered in Australia under a dual listed companies structure.
In 1997, ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on the RTZ became Rio Tinto plc and CRA became Dividend arrangements Australian Securities Exchange.
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has a Dual listed companies structure shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that .
In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the is without taking into account any associated Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and terms of the dual listed companies merger the tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US the underlying shares are registered with the DLC structure which was designed to dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, US Securities and Exchange Commission and place the shareholders of both Companies in  .
substantially the same position as if they held dollars.
The Companies are also required to shares in a single entity owning all of the announce and pay their dividends and other Nomenclature and financial data assets of both Companies.
distributions as close in time to each other Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate as possible.
Following the approval of the DLC structure, together and are referred to in this report as Rio both Companies entered into a DLC Merger In the unlikely event that one Company did not Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement have sufficient distributable reserves to pay the Group.
These collective expressions are used through which each Company agreed to ensure equalised dividend or the equalised capital for convenience only, since both Companies, that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and distribution, it would be entitled to receive a and the individual companies in which they Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified top-up payment from the other relevant directly or indirectly own investments, are basis, to ensure that the boards of directors of Company.
The top-up payment could be made separate and distinct legal entities.
Limited, each Company are the same, and to give effect as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or by plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or to certain arrangements designed to provide way of a contractual payment.
SA have generally been omitted from Group shareholders of each Company with a common company names, except to distinguish between If the payment of an equalised dividend would economic interest in the DLC structure.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial contravene the law applicable to one of the data in US dollars US$ is derived from, and In order to achieve this third objective, the Companies they may depart from the should be read in conjunction with, the 2015 Sharing Agreement provided for the ratio of Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a financial statements.
In general, financial data in dividend, voting and capital distribution rights departure occur, the relevant Company will put pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to aside reserves to be held for payment on the have been translated from the consolidated each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an relevant shares at a later date.
financial statements and have been provided Equalisation Ratio which has remained Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to solely for convenience: exceptions arise where unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has enforce the dividend equalisation provisions of data can be extracted directly from source provided for this ratio to be revised in special the Sharing Agreement.
Certain key information has been circumstances where, for example, certain provided in all three currencies in the 2015 modifications are made to the share capital of The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to financial statements.
one Company, such as rights issues, bonus provide the Group with flexibility for internal issues, share splits and share consolidations, funds management by allowing dividends to be History but not to the share capital of the other.
paid between the Companies and their Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March Outside these specified circumstances, the subsidiaries.
1962 then called The Rio TintoZinc Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the Voting arrangements Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by approval of shareholders under the Class In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides the merger of The Rio Tinto Company Limited Rights Action approval procedure described for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited.
In addition, any Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in adjustments are required to be confirmed by on all matters which affect shareholders of 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in the Groups external auditors.
both Companies in similar ways.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Consistent with the creation of the DLC referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Limiteds origins trace back to the Australian structure, directors of each Company seek to Decisions include the creation of new classes of mining industry in the early twentieth century.
act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
share capital, the appointment or removal of Operating out of Broken Hill in New South The Class Rights Action approval procedure is directors and auditors and the receiving of the Wales, it came to prominence with the mining intended to deal with instances where there annual financial statements.
All shareholder of silver, lead and zinc deposits and later may be a conflict of interest between the resolutions including Joint Decisions are voted expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on To ensure that the boards of both Companies The Sharing Agreement also provides for the 17 December 1959 then called The Rio Tinto are identical, resolutions to appoint or remove protection of shareholders of each Company by Mining Company of Australia Limited and directors must be put to shareholders of both requiring their separate approval for decisions in 1962 the Australian interests of  asJoint that do not affect the shareholders of both The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited and Decisions as described under Voting rights.
Matters requiring this The Rio Tinto Company Limited were merged It is a requirement of the constitution of each approval procedure are referred to as Class to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited as Company that a person can only be a director Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
a limited liability company under the laws of of one Company if that person is also a director For example, fundamental elements of the DLC the State of Victoria, Australia.
So, for example, if a structure cannot be changed unless Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto approved separately by shareholders of both itsnametoCRALimited.
plc,  Companies under the Class Rights Action of Rio Tinto Limited.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Exceptions to these principles can arise in At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at It is consistent with the creation of the single situations such as where legislation requires which a Joint Decision is considered, each economic enterprise, and the equal treatment the separate approval of a decision by the Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws appropriate majority of shareholders in the holder of its Special Voting Share will have and regulations should operate in this way.
The one Company, and approval of the matter one vote for each vote cast by the public Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the by shareholders of the other Company is shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose not required.
The holder of the Special Voting restrictions on any person who controls, , andonly, in directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the Where a matter has been expressly accordance with the votes cast for and against votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a categorised as either a Joint Decision or a Class the equivalent resolution at the parallel person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto Rights Action, the directors do not have the Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, the restrictions will power to change that categorisation.
If a matter only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, falls within both categories, it is treated as a The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares  Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors do not actually hold any voting shares in Companys general meetings.
can determine that matters not expressly Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in listed in either category should be put Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting If one of the thresholds specified above is to shareholders for their approval under arrangements relating to the Special breached, subject to certain limited exceptions either procedure.
and notification by the relevant Company, such persons may not attend or vote at general To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, Capital distribution arrangements meetings of the relevant Company, may not each Company has entered into shareholder If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, receive dividends or other distributions from voting agreements.
Each Company has issued the Sharing Agreement provides for a valuation the relevant Company and may be divested of a Special Voting Share to a special purpose to be made of the surplus assets of both their interest by the directors of the relevant company held in trust for shareholders by a Companies.
If the surplus assets available for Company.
These restrictions continue to apply common Trustee.
distribution by one Company on each of the  shares held by its shareholders exceed the Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting offer for all of the publicly held shares of the surplus assets available for distribution by the Share RTP Special Voting Share to RTL other Company, or have reduced their other Company on each of the shares held by Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has controlling interest below the thresholds its shareholders, then an equalising payment issued its Special Voting Share RTL Special specified, or have acquired through a permitted between the two Companies shall be made, to Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
The means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held , such total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions shares of each Company.
that the amount available for distribution on by the shareholders of one Company are voted These provisions are designed to ensure that each share held by shareholders of each at the parallel meeting of the other Company.
offers for the publicly held shares of both Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The role of these special purpose companies in Companies would be required in order to avoid The objective is to ensure that the achieving this is described below.
the restrictions set out above, even if the shareholders of both Companies have In exceptional circumstances, certain interests which breach the thresholds are only equivalent entitlements to the assets of the shareholders of the Companies can be held in one of the Companies.
The directors do combined Group on a per share basis, taking excluded from voting at the respective not have the discretion to exempt a person account of the Equalisation Ratio.
Companys general meetings because they from the operation of these rules.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any have acquired shares in one Company in excess Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies enforceable rights to the shareholders of either of a given threshold without making an offer for agree to co-operate to enforce the above Company upon liquidation of a Company.
all the shares in the other Company.
If this restrictions contained in their Articles of should occur, the votes cast by these excluded Limitations on ownership of shares and Association and Constitution.
merger obligations Guarantees  Following the Companies general meetings In 1995 each Company entered into a Deed Australia impose restrictions and obligations the overall results of the voting are announced Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the on persons who control interests in publicly to the stock exchanges, to the media and other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll listed companies in excess of defined published on the Rio Tinto website.
Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the thresholds that, under certain circumstances, At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at contractual obligations of the other Company include obligations to make a public offer for all which a Joint Decision is considered, each and the obligations of other persons which are of the outstanding issued shares of the Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the guaranteed by the other Company, subject to relevant company.
The threshold applicable to  certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is for each vote cast by the public shareholders of the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demands 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Rio Tinto Limited in their parallel meeting.
The upon the guarantor thereunder without first Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent  having recourse to the Company or persons on a standalone basis or, taking into account to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint votes cast by public shareholders for and obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Decision basis.
against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
Sharing Agreement and under other limited Association of Rio Tinto plc and the circumstances, but only in respect of The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were obligations arising after such termination and, shares do not actually hold any voting shares amended with the intention of extending these in the case of other limited circumstances, the in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in laws and regulations to the combined publication and expiry of due notice.
The Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce voting arrangements relating to the Special person cannot exercise control over one the provisions of the Deed Poll Guarantees in Voting Share.
Company without having made offers to the relation to their interest in the shares of the public shareholders of both Companies.
com 237 Shareholder information continued Markets  Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a Rio Tinto plc national stock exchange with an automated The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is trading system.
the London Stock Exchange with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Share ownership Trading Service SETS system.
Substantial shareholders Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
, any Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights American depositary receipts are available in of three per cent or more, or any person with Rio Tintos Annual report on Form 20-F. voting power of five per cent or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Rio Tinto Limited relevant companies with notice.
Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of 15 February 2016 are: Percentage of Date of issued share Rio Tinto plc notice Number of shares capital AXA S. A.
Ltd 26 Jan 2016 182,550,329 13.1 Rio Tinto Limited Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 10 June 2009 see footnote a see footnote a BlackRock Inc 24 Mar 2015 22,161,984 5.13 BlackRock Inc 13 April 2015 see footnote b see footnote b BlackRock Inc 30 Oct 2015 see footnote c see footnote c a In its substantial holding notice filed on 10 June 2009 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium Corporation of China disclosed a holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares which, at that time, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, gave these entities and their associates voting power of 9.3 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc has subsequently, by notice dated 26 January 2016, disclosed that Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltds holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares gave these entities and their associates voting power of 13.1 per cent in Rio Tinto plc, which in turn would give these entities and their associates voting power of 10.1 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision Matter.
b In its substantial holding notice filed on 13 April 2015, BlackRock Inc and its associates disclosed a holding of 120,174,604 shares in Rio Tinto plc and 22,330,443 shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, these interests gave BlackRock Inc and its associates voting power of 7.7 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
c By subsequent notice dated 30 October 2015 BlackRock Inc and its associates disclosed that they no longer held a relevant interest in 5 per cent or more of Rio Tinto Limiteds issued capital.
Asfarasisknown,  As of 15 February 2016, the total amount of Limited are not directly or indirectly owned or the Groups voting securities owned by the controlled by another corporation or by any  government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not shares of 10p each or ADRs and in Rio Tinto aware of any arrangement which may result in Limited was 205,388 ordinary shares, in a change in control.
No shareholder possesses aggregate representing less than one per cent voting rights that differ from those attaching of the Groups total number of shares in issue.
to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Analysis of ordinary shareholders Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited No.
b This includes 116,136,119 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,384,496,455 publicly held shares: of which 10,440,126 shares are held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds as at 15 February 2016: Percentage of Number of issued share Rio Tinto Limited shares capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 93,147,007 21.96 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 74,935,815 17.67 National Nominees Limited 38,405,986 9.05 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 21,019,827 4.96 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 10,356,104 2.44 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 6,193,139 1.46 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 4,750,214 1.12 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.86 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 2,963,704 0.70 Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.59 AMP Life Limited 2,291,564 0.54 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 1,697,680 0.40 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 1,689,825 0.40 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000086 A C 1,419,959 0.33 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited PI Pooled A C 1,219,856 0.29 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000091 A C 1,176,763 0.28 National Nominees Limited DB A C 955,275 0.23 Australian United Investment Company Limited 950,000 0.22 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 818,580 0.19 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited MBA A C 732,201 0.17 Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
com 239 Shareholder information continued Dividends 2015 dividends interests in shares or debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the The 2015 interim and final dividends were  Company, except in certain prescribed determined at 107.5 US cents and at ordinary shares every year since incorporation circumstances, including in respect of 107.5 US cents per share respectively and the in 1962.
The process by which Rio Tinto resolutions: applicable conversion rates for the interim and shareholders receive dividends is explained final dividend were US$1.55975 and under the description of the DLC structure on indemnifying him or her or a third party in US$1.44850 to the pound sterling and page 236. respect of obligations incurred by the US$0.74185 and US$0.70775 to the Australian director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, Dividend policy dollar respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc theCompany,  In February 2016, the board revised the shareholders who elected to receive their the Company, for which the director has dividend policy.
The former progressive interim dividend in Australian dollars the assumed responsibility under an indemnity, dividend policy was honoured in respect of the applicable conversion rate was A$2.1671 and security or guarantee: final dividend declared for 2015.
The new policy for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected relating to an offer of securities in which he set out below was adopted.
to receive their dividend in sterling the or she may be interested as a holder of applicable conversion rate was 0.46145.
At the end of each financial period, the board securities or as an underwriter: will determine an appropriate total level of Final dividends of 74.21 pence or 151.89 concerning another body corporate in which ordinary dividend per share, taking into account  the director is beneficially interested in less the results for the financial year, the outlook for 7 April 2016.
For those Rio Tinto plc than one per cent of the issued shares of our major commodities, the boards view of the shareholders requesting the 2015 final any class of shares of such a body long-term growth prospects of the business dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those corporate: and the Companys objective of maintaining a holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs each relating to an employee benefit in which the strong balance sheet.
The intention is that the representing one share and those Rio Tinto director will share equally with other balance between the interim and final dividend Limited shareholders requesting the 2015 final employees: is weighted to the final dividend.
dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the relating to liability insurance that the applicable conversion rates will be announced The board expects total cash returns to Company is empowered to purchase for the on 31 March 2016. shareholders over the longer term to be in a benefit of directors of the Company in range of 40 to 60 per cent of underlying Dividend reinvestment plan DRP respect of actions undertaken as directors earnings in aggregate through the cycle.
or officers of the Company: and Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the opportunity concerning the giving of indemnities in The board is committed to maintaining an to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto favour of directors or the funding of appropriate balance between cash returns shares in the market.
Due to local legislation expenditure by directors to defend criminal, to shareholders and investment in the the DRP cannot be extended to shareholders in civil or regulatory proceedings or actions business, with the intention of maximising the US, Canada and certain other countries.
Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except Material contracts Acknowledging the cyclical nature of the where a director is constrained by Australian industry, in periods of strong earnings and Articles of Association and Constitution, and law, a director may be present at a meeting of cashgeneration,  DLC Sharing Agreement  to supplement the ordinary dividends with As explained on pages 236 to 237, under the has a material personal interest is being additional returns to shareholders.
terms of the DLC structure the shareholders of considered and may vote in respect of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered Dividend determination that matter.
into certain contractual arrangements which  The directors are empowered to exercise all the are designed to place the shareholders of both US dollars, making this the most appropriate , to  measure for our global business performance.
charge any property or business of the as if they held shares in a single entity which It is our main reporting currency and, Companies or all, or any, of their uncalled owned all of the assets of both Companies.
consequently, the natural currency for dividend  Generally, and as far as is permitted by the UK determination.
Dividends determined in other security for a debt, liability or obligation Companies Act and the Australian Corporations US dollars are translated at exchange rates of the Companies or of any other person.
Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is prevailing two days prior to the declaration and The directors shall restrict the borrowings reflected in the Articles of Association of  of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by Rio Tinto Limited.
The summaries below On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can the Company and its subsidiaries shall not include descriptions of material rights of the elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars exceed an amount equal to one and one half shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to times the Companies share capital plus Rio Tinto Limited.
receive dividends in pounds sterling.
If such an aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an Objects election is made, the dividend amounts ordinary resolution of the Company.
At the 2009 annual general meetings, received will be calculated by converting the Directors are not required to hold any shares of shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto declared dividend using the exchange rates either Company by way of qualification.
The Limited approved amendments to the applicable to sterling and Australian dollars Remuneration Report on pages 79 and 86 constitutional documents whereby the object five days prior to the dividend payment date.
provides information on shareholding policies  Shareholders who wish to receive their relating to executive and non-executive to have the widest possible scope of activities.
dividends in any other currencies should directors.
Please refer to the Corporate Directors contact the Companies share registrars, who governance section on pages 55 to 56 for , a offer payment services in other currencies, information on the appointment of directors.
director may not vote in respect of any subject to a fee.
Rights attaching to shares proposal in which he or she, or any other Under English law, dividends on shares may person connected with him or her, has any only be paid out of profits available for interest, other than by virtue of his or her 240 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION distribution, as determined in accordance with vote at the meeting on which there have or more persons who hold or represent by generally accepted accounting principles and been paid-up sums in the aggregate equal proxy not less than one-third in nominal value bytherelevantlaw.
 to not less than one tenth of the total sum of the issued shares of the class.
to receive such dividends as may be declared paid up on all the shares conferring that Rights upon a winding-up bythedirectors.
 right: or  shareholders such interim dividends as appear the holder of the Special Voting Share of otherwise agree, upon a winding-up, the to them to be justified by the financial position either Company.
balance of assets available for distribution: of the Group.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy after the payment of all creditors including Under the Australian Corporations Act, the authority to demand a poll, or to join others certain preferential creditors, whether dividends on shares may only be paid if the in demanding one.
statutorily preferred creditors or normal companys assets exceed its liabilities creditors: and The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc immediately before the dividend is declared general meeting is three members present in subject to any special rights attaching to and the excess is sufficient for the payment of person or by proxy or other duly authorised any class of shares.
thedividend,  representative and entitled to vote, and for a and reasonable to the Companys shareholders is to be distributed among the holders of Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two as a whole, and the payment of the dividend ordinary shares according to the amounts members present in person or by proxy or does not materially prejudice the Companys paid-up on the shares held by them.
This other duly authorised representative.
ability to pay its creditors.
Any Rio Tinto plc distribution is generally to be made in cash.
dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the Matters are transacted at general meetings by A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption date the dividend was declared, or became due the proposing and passing of resolutions as: of a special resolution of the shareholders, for payment, will be forfeited and returned to divide among the shareholders the whole or ordinary resolutions, which require the the Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend any part of the assets in specie or kind.
 unclaimed may be invested or otherwise used those persons voting at a meeting at which The Sharing Agreement further sets out further by the board for the benefit of the Company thereisaquorum,  arrangements relating to the distribution of until claimed or otherwise disposed of of directors: and assets of each of the Companies in the event of according to Australian law.
Rio Tinto Limited is a liquidation as explained on page 237. special resolutions, which require the governed by Victorian unclaimed monies affirmative vote of not less than threelegislation, which requires the Company to pay Facility agreement fourths of the persons voting at a meeting to the State Revenue Office any unclaimed Details of the Groups US$7.5 billion at which there is a quorum, for example dividend payments of A$ 20 or more that at multi-currency committed revolving credit amending the Articles of Association of 1 March each year have remained unclaimed facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2015 Rio Tinto plc or the Constitution of forover12months.
Voting Exchange controls and foreign The Sharing Agreement further classifies Voting at any general meeting of shareholders investment resolutions as Joint Decisions and Class on a resolution on which the holder of the Rights Actions as explained under Voting Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be Rio Tinto plc arrangements on page 235. decided by a poll, and any other resolution There are no UK foreign exchange controls or  other UK restrictions on the import or export of Annual general meetings must be convened poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of capital or on the payment of dividends to nonwith 21 days written notice for Rio Tinto plc hands, every shareholder who is present in resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
person or by proxy or other duly authorised materially affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs In accordance with the authority granted by representative and is entitled to vote has one operations.
It should be noted, however, that shareholders at the Rio Tinto plc annual vote regardless of the number of shares held.
varioussanctions, laws, regulationsor general meeting on 16 April 2015, other The holder of the Special Voting Share is not conventions may restrict the import or export meetings of Rio Tinto plc may be convened entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, with 14 days written notice for the passing of a every shareholder who is present in person or non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
special resolution and with 14 days notice for by proxy or other duly authorised There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs any other resolution, depending on the nature representative and is entitled to vote has one Articles of Association or under UK law that .
Allmeetings vote for every ordinary share for which he or  of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In sheistheholderand, inthecaseofJoint vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
However, certain of calculating the period of notice the days of Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting the provisions of the Australian Foreign delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of  Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 described the meeting are not included.
Among other respect of the publicly held shares of the below also apply to the acquisition by nonthings, the notice must specify the nature of other Company.
Australian persons of interests in securities of .
A poll may be demanded by any of the Variation of rights following: Rio Tinto Limited If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached Under current Australian legislation, the chairman of the meeting: to any class may be varied, subject to the permission is not required for the movement of at least five shareholders entitled to vote on provisions of the relevant legislation, with the funds into or out of Australia.
However, there is the resolution: consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in a prohibition on, or in some cases the specific any shareholder or shareholders value of the shares of that class or upon the prior approval of the Department of Foreign representing in the aggregate not less than adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th at a separate meeting of the holders of the must be obtained for, certain payments or Rio Tinto Limited of the total voting rights shares of that class.
At every such separate other dealings connected with countries or of all shareholders entitled to vote on the meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of parties identified with terrorism, or to whom resolution: Association and Constitution relating to United Nations or autonomous Australian any shareholder or shareholders holding proceedings at a general meeting apply, except sanctions apply.
Rio Tinto plc shares conferring a right to that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two 2015 Annual report riotinto.
