Other information Other information The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed Financial risk management to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context of The Board has established a structured approach to financial risk the business and market conditions.
There are no rating triggers management.
The Financial risk committee Frc is accountable for inany borrowing facility that would require the facility to be managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and accelerated or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups exposures.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, credit rating.
currency, interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating The Group conducts some of its business through a number of joint risks outlined in more depth in note 17.
The Frc is chaired by the ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these joint ventures is Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has a comprehensive financial secured on the assets of the respective companies and is risk policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to non-recourse to the Group.
This debt is further outlined in note 11. manage and hedge business operations risks that arise from movements in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
TheGroups policy is not to engage in speculative financial Credit rating transactions.
The Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key Rating Outlook Grade risksand agree any mitigating actions required.
Moodys Investors Service A3 Stable Investment Standard & Poors A Negative Investment Capital structure The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and m 2015 2014 Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
Atthe Total equity 5,016 6,387 date of this report, the Group maintained investment grade ratings Cash flow hedges 100 81 from both agencies.
Group capital 5,116 6,468 As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments Net funds 111 666 toour customers, the Group attaches significant importance tomaintaining or improving the current investment grade Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank creditratings.
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance offundingrequired.
Accounting Funding is secured by the Groups continued access to the global The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in debt markets.
Borrowings are funded in various currencies using accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, derivatives where appropriate to achieve a required currency and as adopted by the EU.
The Boards objective is to retain sufficient No new accounting standards had a material impact in 2015. financial investments and undrawn facilities to ensure that the Theimpact of changes to IFRS which have not been adopted in 2015 Group can both meet its medium-term operational commitments isincluded within the accounting policies in note 1. and cope with unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together Share price with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its liquidity risk.
During the year, the share price decreased by 34% from 870p to575p, compared to a 12% decrease in the FTSE aerospace and defence sector On 6 October 2015 the Group issued US$500m 2.375% Notes due and 5% decrease in the FTSE 100.
The Companys share price ranged 2020 and US$1,000m 3.625% Notes due 2025. from 1054p in April 2015 to 514p inNovember 2015.
During the year the Group renegotiated the 1,000m committed bank borrowing facility, increasing the amount to 1,500m and extending the maturity to 2020.
This facility was undrawn at the period end.
A 300m committed borrowing facility was cancelled during the period.
At the year end, the Group retained aggregate liquidity of 5.0bn, including cash and cash equivalents of 3.2bn and undrawn borrowing facilities of 1.8bn.
419m of the facilities mature in 2016.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 177 Other information OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Share capital C Shares On 31 December 2015, 1,838,677,392 ordinary shares of 20p each, C Shares have limited voting rights and attract a dividend of 75% 28,959,754,116 C Shares of 0.1p each and one Special Share of 1 ofLIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twicewere in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock yearly basis.
The Company has the option to redeem the CShares Exchange.
compulsorily, at any time, if the aggregate number of CShares inissue is less than 10% of the aggregate number of all CShares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of Payment to shareholders theCompany.
The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of CShares shall C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary Shareholders can choose to: shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal redeem all C Shares for cash: to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have been redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in the accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
CShare Reinvestment Plan CRIP : or The holders of C Shares are only entitled to attend, speak and vote keep the C Shares.
ata general meeting if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
The CRIP is operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC theRegistrar.
The Registrar will purchase ordinary shares in the market for shareholders electing to reinvest their C Share proceeds.
Special Share Shareholders wishing to participate in the CRIP or redeem their Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share CShares must ensure that their instructions are lodged with the SpecialShare issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Registrar no later than 5pm BST on 1 June 2016 CREST holders must These rights are set out in the Articles.
Subject to the provisions submit their election in CREST before 3pm BST on 1June2016.
ofthe Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem the Redemption will take place on 4 July 2016.
Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights At the AGM, the Directors will recommend an issue of 71 CShares to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at with a total nominal value of 7.1p for each ordinary share.
itsnominal value in priority to any other shares.
TheCShares will be issued on 1 July 2016 to shareholders on the Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign register on 29 April 2016 and the final day of trading with shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of the Companys entitlement toCShares is 27 April 2016.
Together with the interim Directors that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may issue on4January 2016 of 92.7 C Shares for each ordinary share with only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The atotal nominal value of 9.27p, this is the equivalent of a total annual Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting payment to ordinary shareholders of 16.37p for each ordinaryshare.
orany other meeting of any class of shareholders.
Further information for shareholders is on pages 182 and 183.
Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations Share class rights onholdings The full share class rights are set out in the Companys Articles There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding ofAssociation Articles, which are available on the Groups website ofthe ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles at rolls-royce.
com, and are summarised below.
asdescribed here, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
The Articles provide that the Company should Ordinary shares beand remain under UK control.
As such, an individual foreign Each member has one vote for each ordinary share held.
Holders shareholding limit is set at 15% of the aggregate votes attaching ofordinary shares are entitled to: receive the Companys Annual tothe share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable Report: attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: ofbeing cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
representatives: and exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary TheSpecial Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on tothe Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee.
liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
178 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
