Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Profit for the year 84 58 Other comprehensive income OCI Movements in post-retirement schemes 19 722 1,192 Related tax movements 257 431 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 465 761 Foreign exchange translation differences on foreign operations 129 158 Reclassified to income statement on disposal of businesses 1 29 Share of OCI of joint ventures and associates 11 19 13 Related tax movements 5 2 2 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 149 202 Total comprehensive income for the year 530 617 Attributable to: Ordinary shareholders 530 650 Non-controlling interests 33 Total comprehensive income for the year 530 617 108 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m ASSETS Intangible assets 9 4,645 4,804 Property, plant and equipment 10 3,490 3,446 Investments joint ventures and associates 11 576 539 Investments other 11 33 31 Other financial assets 17 83 107 Deferred tax assets 5 318 369 Post-retirement scheme surpluses 19 1,063 1,740 Non-current assets 10,208 11,036 Inventories 12 2,637 2,768 Trade and other receivables 13 6,244 5,509 Taxation recoverable 23 19 Other financial assets 17 29 22 Short-term investments 2 7 Cash and cash equivalents 14 3,176 2,862 Assets held for sale 5 1 Current assets 12,116 11,188 TOTAL ASSETS 22,324 22,224 LIABILITIES Borrowings 15 419 68 Other financial liabilities 17 331 209 Trade and other payables 16 6,923 6,791 Current tax liabilities 164 184 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 336 433 Current liabilities 8,173 7,685 Borrowings 15 2,883 2,193 Other financial liabilities 17 1,651 717 Trade and other payables 16 2,317 2,445 Non-current tax liabilities 1 10 Deferred tax liabilities 5 839 1,228 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 304 374 Post-retirement scheme deficits 19 1,140 1,185 Non-current liabilities 9,135 8,152 TOTAL LIABILITIES 17,308 15,837 NET ASSETS 5,016 6,387 EQUITY Called-up share capital 20 367 376 Share premium account 180 179 Capital redemption reserve 161 159 Cash flow hedging reserve 100 81 Other reserves 51 78 Retained earnings 4,457 5,671 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders 5,014 6,382 Non-controlling interests 2 5 TOTAL EQUITY 5,016 6,387 The financial statements on pages 107 to 156 were approved by the Board on 11 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: WARREN EAST Chief Executive DAVID SMITH Chief Financial Officer Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 109 Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities Operating profit from continuing operations 1,499 1,390 Operating loss from discontinued operations 1 Operating profit 1,499 1,389 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 3 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 11 100 94 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 11 63 73 Return of capital from joint ventures 11 3 Gain on consolidation of previously non-consolidated subsidiary 3 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 9 432 367 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 10 378 375 Impairment of investments 11 2 Decrease increase in provisions 151 129 Decrease in inventories 63 166 Increase in trade and other receivables 836 878 Increase in trade and other payables 242 214 Cash flows on other financial assets and liabilities held for operating purposes 305 30 Net defined benefit post-retirement cost recognised in profit before financing 19 213 170 Cash funding of defined benefit post-retirement schemes 259 322 Share-based payments 21 5 21 Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation 1,254 1,577 Taxation paid 160 276 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,094 1,301 Cash flows from investing activities Additions of unlisted investments 6 11 Additions of intangible assets 408 477 Disposals of intangible assets 4 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 487 648 Government grants received 8 11 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 33 65 Acquisitions of businesses 5 3 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 1,937 Disposal of discontinued operations 121 1,027 Disposals of other businesses 2 24 Investments in joint ventures and associates 15 17 Net cash outflow from investing activities 995 1,966 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of loans 54 233 Proceeds from increase in loans and finance leases 1,150 49 Capital element of finance lease payments 1 Net cash flow from increase decrease in borrowings and finance leases 1,095 184 Interest received 5 18 Interest paid 58 63 Interest element of finance lease payments 2 Decrease in short-term investments 5 313 Issue of ordinary shares net of expenses 32 1 Purchase of ordinary shares share buyback 433 69 Purchase of ordinary shares other 2 2 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest 76 Redemption of C Shares 421 406 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 221 468 Change in cash and cash equivalents 320 1,133 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2,862 3,987 Exchange losses gains on cash and cash equivalents 6 8 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 3,176 2,862 110 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 2015 2014 m m Reconciliation of movements in cash and cash equivalents to movements in net funds Change in cash and cash equivalents 320 1,133 Cash flow from increase decrease in borrowings and finance leases 1,095 184 Cash flow from decrease in short-term investments 5 313 Change in net funds resulting from cash flows 780 1,262 Net funds excluding cash and cash equivalents of businesses acquired 30 Exchange gains on net funds 3 19 Fair value adjustments 45 59 Movement in net funds 732 1,332 Net funds at 1 January excluding the fair value of swaps 608 1,940 Net funds at 31 December excluding the fair value of swaps 124 608 Fair value of swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings 13 58 Net funds at 31 December 111 666 The movement in net funds defined by the Group as including the items shown below is as follows: At At 1 January Funds Exchange Fair value 31 December 2015 flow differences adjustments Reclassifications 2015 m m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 739 69 8 662 Money-market funds 692 92 1 783 Short-term deposits 1,431 297 3 1,731 Cash and cash equivalents 2,862 320 6 3,176 Short-term investments 7 5 2 Other current borrowings 67 64 8 294 417 Non-current borrowings 2,149 1,027 12 37 294 2,833 Finance leases 45 4 3 52 Net funds excluding fair value of swaps 608 780 3 45 124 Fair value of swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings 58 45 13 Net funds 666 780 3 111 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 111 Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2015 Attributable to ordinary shareholders NonCapital Cash flow controlling Share Share redemption hedging Other Retained interests Total 1 2 3 capital premium reserve reserve reserves earnings Total NCI equity Notes m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 376 80 163 68 250 4,804 5,605 698 6,303 Profit for the year 69 69 11 58 Foreign exchange translation differences on foreign operations 141 141 17 158 Reclassified to income statement on disposal ofbusinesses 29 29 29 Movement on post-retirement schemes 19 1,199 1,199 7 1,192 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures andassociates 11 13 13 13 Related tax movements 5 2 433 435 2 433 Total comprehensive income for the year 13 172 835 650 33 617 Arising on issues of ordinary shares 20 2 99 100 1 1 Issue of C Shares 17 414 2 412 412 Redemption of C Shares 17 408 408 4 Ordinary shares purchased share buyback 69 69 69 4 Ordinary shares cancelled 20 2 2 Ordinary shares purchased other 2 2 2 5 Share-based payments direct to equity 29 29 29 Transactions with NCI acquisition of NCI shares 584 584 584 Dividend paid to NCI 76 76 Related tax movements 5 4 4 4 Other changes in equity in the year 99 4 32 127 660 533 At 1 January 2015 376 179 159 81 78 5,671 6,382 5 6,387 Profit for the year 83 83 1 84 Foreign exchange translation differences on foreign operations 128 128 1 129 Reclassified to income statement on disposal ofbusinesses 1 1 1 Movement on post-retirement schemes 19 722 722 722 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures andassociates 11 19 19 19 Related tax movements 5 2 257 255 255 Total comprehensive income for the year 19 129 382 530 530 Arising on issues of ordinary shares 1 1 1 Issue of C Shares 17 430 2 428 428 Redemption of C Shares 17 423 423 4 Ordinary shares purchased share buyback 433 433 433 4 Ordinary shares cancelled 20 9 9 Ordinary shares purchased other 2 2 2 5 Share-based payments direct to equity 30 30 30 Transactions with NCI 3 3 Related tax movements 5 6 6 6 Other changes in equity in the year 9 1 2 832 838 3 841 At 31 December 2015 367 180 161 100 51 4,457 5,014 2 5,016 1 See accounting policies note 1.
2 Other reserves include a merger reserve of 3m 2014: 3m, 2013 3m and a translation reserve of 54 m 2014: 75m, 2013: 247m.
3 At 31 December 2015, 5,894,064 ordinary shares with a net book value of 52m 2014 14,561,097, 2013 11,960,535 ordinary shares with net book values of 129m and 91m respectively were held for the purpose of share-based payment plans and included in retained earnings.
During the year, 10,892,026 ordinary shares with a net book value of 98m 2014 7,770,113 shares with a net book value of 64m vested in share-based payment plans.
During the year the Company acquired 224,993 2014 169,404 of its ordinary shares via reinvestment of dividends received on its own shares and purchased 2,000,000 2014 nil of its ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year, theCompany issued no new ordinary shares 2014 10,200,000 to the Groups share trust for its employees share-based payment plans with a net book value of nil 2014 100m.
4 Following the completion of the sale of the Energy business to Siemens on 1 December 2014 and further to the announcement on 19 June 2014 of a 1bn share buyback, the Company put in place a programme to enable the purchase of its ordinary shares.
The aim of the buyback was to reduce the issued share capital of the Company, helping enhance returns forshareholders.
In the period to 31 December 2014, 8,215,000 shares were purchased at an average price of 840p.
Inthe year to 31 December 2015, 46,016,303 shares were purchased at an average price of 937p.
44,016,303 of these shares were cancelled and 2,000,000 were retained for use inshare-based payment programmes.
On 6 July 2015, the Company announced that the share buyback programme had been curtailed at the to-date total of 500m.
5 Share-based payments direct to equity is the net of the credit to equity in respect of the share-based payment charge to the income statement and the actual cost of shares vesting, excluding those vesting from own shares.
112 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies THE COMPANY Rolls-Royce Holdings plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 consist of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interest in jointly controlled and associated entities.
BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE In accordance with European Union EU regulations, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, as adopted for use in the EU effective at 31 December 2015 Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements under FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
This year is the first year that the financial statements have been prepared under FRS 101.
They are set out on pages 157 to 159 and the accounting policies in respect of Company financial statements are set out on page 158.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except where Adopted IFRS requires the revaluation of financial instruments to fair value and certain other assets and liabilities on an alternative basis most significantly post-retirement scheme obligations are valued on the basis required by IAS 19 Employee Benefits and on a going concern basis as described on page 57.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
KEY AREAS OF JUDGEMENT Introduction The Group generates a significant portion of its revenues and profit on aftermarket arrangements arising from the installed original equipment OE fleet.
As a consequence, the Group will often agree contractual prices for OE deliveries that take into account the anticipated aftermarket arrangements.
Accounting policies reflect this aspect of the business model, in particular thepolicies for the recognition of contractual aftermarket rights and the linkage of OE and aftermarket arrangements.
When a civil large engine is sold, the economic benefits received usually far exceed the cash receivable under the contract, due to the rightsto valuable aftermarket spare parts business.
However, because the value of this right cannot be estimated with enough precision, accounting standards require that the revenue recognised in the accounts on sale of the engine is restricted to a total amount that results in a break even position.
The amount of the revenue recognised in excess of cash receivable is recognised as an intangible asset, which is called a contractual aftermarket right previously referred to as a recoverable engine cost: this change has been made to reflect better the nature of the asset.
There is only one circumstance where accounting standards require the recognition of more of the value of the aftermarket rights whenanengine is sold.
This occurs where a long-term aftermarket contract generally a TotalCare agreement TCA and an engine salecontract have been negotiated together.
In this circumstance, the part of the aftermarket rights covered by the TCA can be valued much more precisely and is recognised at the time of the engine sale through accounting for the engine sale and TCA as a single contract.
Nevertheless, the accounting profit recognised is still less than the economic benefits on the sale as there will be other valuable aftermarket rights for instance for the period beyond the TCA term or for the sale of parts which are outside the scope of the TCA whichcannot be recognised.
The Group enters into arrangements with long-term suppliers to share the risks and rewards of major programmes risk and revenue sharing arrangements RRSAs.
The accounting policy for these arrangements has been chosen, consistent with Adopted IFRS, to reflect their commercial effect.
The key judgements in determining these accounting policies are described below.
Contractual aftermarket rights CARs On delivery of Civil Aerospace engines, the Group has contractual rights to supply aftermarket parts to the customers and its intellectual rights, warranty arrangements and, where relevant, statutory airworthiness or other regulatory requirements provide reasonable control over this supply.
The Directors consider that these rights meet the definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
However, the Directors do not consider that it is possible to determine a reliable fair value for this intangible asset.
Accordingly, an intangible asset CAR is only recognised on the occasions where the contractual price of the engine is below the cost of manufacture and then only to the extent of this deficit, as this amount is reliably measureable.
An equal amount of revenue is recognised at the same point.
Where a long-term aftermarket contract is linked to the OE contract see below, the contractual price of the engine including amounts allocated from the aftermarket contract is above its cost of manufacture: consequently no CAR is recognised.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 113 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Measure of performance on long-term aftermarket contracts A large proportion of the Groups activities relate to long-term aftermarket contracts, in particular TotalCare and similar arrangements in the Aerospace Division.
Under these contracts, the Groups primary obligation is to maintain customers equipment in an operational condition and achieves this by undertaking various activities, such as engine monitoring, line maintenance and repair and overhaul, over the period of the contract.
In general, the Directors consider that the stage of performance of the contract should be by reference to the obligation to maintain an operational fleet and that this is best measured by the operation of the fleet.
Accordingly, stage of performance is measured by reference to flying hours of each fleet under contract.
Linkage of original and long-term aftermarket contracts Where the key terms of a long-term aftermarket contract are substantively agreed eg.
in a term sheet at the same time as an OE contract with the operator, the Directors consider these to be linked for accounting purposes and they are treated as a single contract, as this best reflects the overall commercial effect.
Where the OE contract is not with the operator, eg.
where it is with an OE manufacturer or a lessor, the contracts are not linked as they were not negotiated on a unified basis.
Risk and revenue sharing arrangements RRSAs with key suppliers workshare partners are a feature of our Civil Aerospace business.
Under these contractual arrangements the key commercial objectives are that: i during the development phase the workshare partner shares in the risks of developing an engine by performing its own development work, providing development parts and paying a non-refundable cash entry fee: and ii during the production phase it supplies components in return for a share of the programme revenues as a life of type supplier ie.
as long as the engine remains in service.
The share of development costs borne by the workshare partner and of the revenues it receives reflect the partners proportionate cost of providing its production parts compared to the overall manufacturing cost of the engine.
The share is based on a jointly agreed forecast at the commencement of the arrangement.
These arrangements are complex and have features that could be indicative of: a collaboration agreement, including sharing of risk and cost in a development programme: a long-term supply agreement: sharing of intellectual property: or a combination of these.
In summary, and as described below, the Directors view is that the development and production phases of the contract should be considered separately in accounting for the RRSA, which results in the entry fee being matched against the non-recurring costs incurred by the Group.
Having considered the features above, the Directors considered that there is no directly applicable IFRS to determine an accounting policy for the recognition of entry fees of this nature in the income statement.
Consequently, in developing an accounting treatment for such entry fees that best reflects the commercial objectives of the contractual arrangement, the Directors have analysed these features in the context of relevant accounting pronouncements including those of other standard setters where these do not conflict with IFRS and have weighed the importance of each feature in faithfully representing the overall commercial effect.
The most important considerations that need to be balanced are: the transfer of development risk: the workshare partner receiving little standalone value from the payment of the entry fee: and the overall effect being collaboration between the parties which falls short of being a joint venture as the Group controls the programme.
Also important in the analysis is the fact that, whilst the Group and the workshare partner share risks and rewards through the life of the contract, these risks and rewards are very different during the development and production phases.
In this context, the entry fee might be considered to represent: an amount paid as an equalisation of development costs: a payment to secure a long-term supply arrangement: a purchase of intellectual property: or some combination thereof.
The accounting under these different scenarios could include: recognition of the entry fee to match the associated costs in the income statement: being spread over the life of the programme as a reduction in the cost of supply during production: or being spread over the time period of the access to the intellectual property by the workshare partner.
The Directors consider that the most important features of the arrangement are the risk sharing and that the entry fee represents a contribution to the development costs that the Group incurs in excess of its proportionate programme share.
The key judgements taken in reaching this view are: the entry fee is determined by the parties on that basis and the contract specifies that, in the event that a derivative engine is to be developed, additional entry fees will also be calculated on this basis: the workshare partners describe the entry fee in this way: although the workshare partner receives little stand-alone value from paying the entry fee, the entry fee together with its own development activities represent its aggregate investment in the collaboration: the amount of the entry fee does not include any amount in excess of that necessary to equalise forecast development costs: the Group is not on risk for the full development costs it incurs but for that amount less the entry fees received: and, as far as can be determined, this appears to be common industry accounting for arrangements of this type, under both Adopted IFRS and US accounting standards which the Directors do not believe conflicts with IFRS in this regard.
The resulting accounting policy described on page 117 represents the commercial effect of the contractual arrangements in that the Group recognises only those development costs to which it is exposed and thus reflects the significant transfer of development risk to the workshare partner and the costs of supply of parts during the production phase is measured at the workshare partners share of programme revenues which we consider to be a commercial fair value.
The Directors do not consider that accounting which would result in entry fees only being recognised in the production phase would appropriately reflect the sharing of development risk.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that the policy adopted best reflects the commercial objectives of the arrangements, the nature of the relationship with the workshare partner and is in accordance with Adopted IFRS.
114 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued As described in the 2013 Annual Report, an alternative view is that the RRSA contract cannot be divided into separate development and production phases, as the fees and development components received by the Group during the development phase are exchanged for the obligation to pay the supplier a predetermined share of any sales receipts during the production phase.
On this basis the entry fees received would be deferred in their entirety and recognised over the period of production.
The size of the difference between the two approaches is monitored and is not currently expected to become material in the foreseeable future.
The impact of the different approaches on profit before tax and net assets, which is not considered to be material, is as follows: 2015 2014 Reported Underlying profit Reported Underlying profit profit before tax before tax Net assets profit before tax before tax Net assets m m m m m m Adopted policy 160 1,432 5,016 67 1,617 6,387 1 1 Difference 28 28 435 30 30 402 Alternative policy 132 1,404 4,581 37 1,587 5,985 1 If the alternative policy were adopted, the difference would be included in profit before financing, which would change from 1,501m as reported to 1,473m 2014: 1,398m to 1,368m Internally generated development costs IAS 38 requires that internally generated development costs should only be recognised if strict criteria are met, in particular relating to technical feasibility and generation of future economic benefits.
The Directors consider that, due to the complex nature of new equipment programmes, these criteria are not met until relatively late in the programme Civil Aerospace programmes represent around half of development costs recognised: for these, the criteria are generally satisfied around the time of the initial engine certification.
Customer financing contingent liabilities The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing support provided to customers.
In order to assess whether a provision should berecognised, judgement as to the likelihood of these crystallising is required.
This judgement is based on an assessment on the knowledge of the customers fleet plans, the underlying value of the security provided and, where appropriate, the customers creditworthiness.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In applying the accounting policies, estimates are made in many areas: the actual outcome may differ from that calculated.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.
The estimation of the relevant assets and liabilities involves the combination ofanumber of assumptions.
Sensitivities are disclosed in the relevant notes where this is appropriate and practicable.
Forecasts and discount rates The carrying values of a number of items on the balance sheet are dependent on the estimates of future cash flows arising from the Groups operations, in particular: The assessment of whether the goodwill and other intangible assets carrying value at 31 December 2015: 1,502m, 31 December 2014:1,658m arising on the consolidation of RRPS is impaired is dependent of the present value of the future cash flows expected to be generated by the business.
The assessment as to whether there are any indications of impairment of development, participation, certification, customer relationships andcontractual aftermarket rights recognised as intangible assets carrying values at 31 December 2015: 2,533m, 31 December 2014: 2,533m is dependent on estimates of cash flows generated by the relevant assets and the discount rate used to calculate a present value.
These estimates include the performance of long-term contractual arrangements as described below, as well as estimates for future market share, pricing and unit cost for uncontracted business.
The risk of impairment is generally higher for newer programmes and for customer specific intangible assets CARs for launch customers and typically reduces as programmes become more established.
Assessment of long-term contractual arrangements The Group has long-term contracts that fall into different accounting periods and which can extend over significant periods the most significant of these are long-term service arrangements in the Civil Aerospace business.
The estimated revenues and costs are inherently imprecise and significant estimates are required to assess: engine flying hours, time on wing and other operating parameters: the pattern of future maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred: and life cycle cost improvements over the term of the contracts.
The estimates take account of the inherent uncertainties and the risk of non-recovery of any resulting contract balances.
During 2015, the methodologies for making these estimates were reviewed and refined.
Post-retirement benefits The Groups defined benefit pension schemes and similar arrangements are assessed annually in accordance with IAS 19.
The accounting valuation, which is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice, resulted in a net deficit of 77m before deferred taxation being recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: net surplus 555m.
The size of the net surplus deficit is sensitive to the market value of the assets held by the schemes and to actuarial assumptions, which include price inflation, pension and salary increases, the discount rate used in assessing actuarial liabilities, mortality and other demographic assumptions and the levels of contributions.
Further details are included in note 19.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 115 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Provisions As described in the accounting policy on page 120, the Group measures provisions carrying value at 31 December 2015: 640m, 31December 2014: 807m at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
These estimates take account of information available and different possible outcomes.
Taxation The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear, or uncertain, then reasonable estimates may be used todetermine the tax charge included in the financial statements.
The main area of uncertainty is in relation to cross border transactions, entered into in the normal course of business, as the amount of income or profit taxable in each country involved can be subjective and therefore open to interpretation by the relevant tax authorities.
This can result in disputes and possibly litigation.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit issues and other areas of uncertainty.
Contingent liabilities, including in respect of any tax disputes or litigation, are covered in note 23 contingent liabilities.
Allprovisions are in current liabilities.
Any liability relating to interest or penalties on tax liabilities is included in the tax charge.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available, against which the deductable temporary difference can be utilised, based on managements assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable profits.
Further details on the Groups tax position can be found on page 176.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Groups significant accounting policies are set out below.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and by all Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The Group consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together with the Groups share of the results of joint arrangements and associates made up to 31 December.
In line with common practice in Germany, a small number of immaterial subsidiaries of Rolls-Royce Power Systems are not consolidated and are carried at cost in other investments.
If such subsidiaries become material, they are consolidated.
The difference between the net assets recognised and the investment cost eliminated is recognised in other operating income.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability to use its power over an entity so as to affect the Companys returns.
A joint arrangement is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Joint arrangements may be either joint ventures or joint operations.
An associate is an entity, being neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement, in which the Group holds a long-term interest and where the Group has a significant influence.
The results of joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Joint operations are accounted for using proportionate accounting.
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint arrangements or associates sold or acquired during the year are included up to, or from, the date ofchange of control.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
Where a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest has been agreed, the Group recognises a liability for the estimated exercise value of that option.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised in the income statement.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Adjustments are made to eliminate the profitor loss arising on transactions with joint arrangements and associates to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Revenue recognition Revenues comprise sales to outside customers after discounts, excluding value added taxes.
Sales of products both original equipment and spare parts are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods aretransferred to the customer, the sales price agreed and the receipt of payment can be assured this is generally on delivery.
On occasion, theGroup may participate in the financing of OE, most commonly by the provision of guarantees as described in note 18.
In such circumstances, the contingent obligations arising under these arrangements are taken into account in assessing when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
As described on page 113, a sale of OE at a contractual price below its cost of manufacture isconsidered to give rise to revenue to the extent that an intangible asset contractual aftermarket right is recognised at the same time.
116 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued Sales of services are recognised by reference to the stage of completion based on services performed to date.
As described on page 114, the assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based on: flying hours or equivalent for long-term aftermarket arrangements where the service is provided on a continuous basis: costs incurred to the extent these relate to services performed up to the reporting date: or achievement of contractual milestones where relevant.
As described on page 114, sales of products and services are treated as though they are a single contract where these components have been negotiated as a single commercial package and are so closely interrelated that they do not operate independently of each other and are considered to form a single transaction with an overall profit margin.
The total revenue is allocated between the two components such that the total agreed discount to list prices is allocated to revenue for each of the two components pro rata, based on list prices.
The revenue is then recognised for each component on this basis as the products are delivered and services provided, as described above.
Where the contractual price of the OE component is below the revenue allocated from the combined arrangement, this will give rise toanasset included in amounts recoverable on contracts.
This asset reduces as services are provided, increases as costs are incurred, andreduces to zero by the end of the contract.
Where the balance is a liability, it is recognised in accruals and deferred income.
Provided that the outcome of construction contracts can be assessed with reasonable certainty, the revenues and costs on such contracts are recognised based on stage of completion and the overall contract profitability.
Full provision is made for any estimated losses to completion ofcontracts, having regard to the overall substance of the arrangements.
Progress payments received, when greater than recorded revenue, are deducted from the value of work in progress except to the extent that payments on account exceed the value of work in progress on any contract where the excess is included in accruals and deferred income within trade and other payables.
The amount by which recorded revenue of long-term contracts is in excess of payments on account is classified as amounts recoverable on contracts and is separately disclosed within trade and other receivables.
TotalCare arrangements As described above, these are accounted for on a stage of completion basis, with the stage of completion based on the proportion of flying hours completed compared to the total estimated under the contract.
In making the assessment of future revenues, costs and the level of profit recognised the Group takes account of: i the forecast utilisation of the engines by the operator: ii the forecast costs to maintain the engines in accordance with the contractual requirements the principal variables being the time between shop visits and the cost of each shop visit: and iii the recoverability of any contract asset arising.
The Group benchmarks the forecast costs against previous programmes, recognising that the reliability of the forecasts will improve as operational experience of the engine increases.
To the extent that actual costs differ from forecast costs or that forecast costs change, the cumulative impact is recognised in the period.
An allowance is made against forecast contract revenues given the potential for reduced engine flying hours based on historical forecasting accuracy, the risk of aircraft being parked by the customer and the customers creditworthiness previously assessed against contract assets arising, based on both the customers creditworthiness and an assessment of the importance of the particular engine fleet to the customer.
Again, changes in this allowance are recognised in the period.
Risk and revenue sharing arrangements RRSAs As described on page 114, the Group enters into arrangements with certain workshare partners under which these suppliers: i contribute to the forecast costs of developing an engine by performing their own development work, providing development parts and paying a non-refundable cash entry fee: and ii supply components for the production phase for which they receive consideration, which isan agreed proportion of the total programme revenues.
Both the suppliers contributions to the forecast non-recurring development costs and their consideration are determined by reference to their proportionate forecast scopes of supply relative to that of the engine overall.
Once the forecast costs and the scopes of supply have been agreed at the inception of the contract, each party is then accountable for its own incurred costs.
No accounting entries are recorded when the suppliers undertake development work or when development components are supplied.
Cash sums received are recognised in the income statement, as a reduction in research and development costs incurred, to match the expensing of the Groups related costs where the cash sums are received in advance of the related costs being expensed or where the related costs are capitalised as intangible assets, the recognition of the cash received is deferred in accruals and deferred income to match the recognition of the related expense or the amortisation of the related intangible asset respectively.
The payments to suppliers of their shares of the programme revenues for their production components are charged to cost of sales as programme revenues arise.
The Group has arrangements with partners who do not undertake development work or supply parts.
Such arrangements are considered to be financial instruments as defined by IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and are accounted for using the amortised costmethod.
Government investment Where a government or similar body has previously invested in a development programme, the Group treats payments to that body as royalty payments, which are matched to related sales.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the related expenses that they are intended to compensate.
Where grants are received in advance of the related expenses, they are included in the balance sheet as deferred income.
Non-monetary grants are recognised at fair value.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 117 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Interest Interest receivable payable is credited charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Where borrowing costs are attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, such costs are capitalised as part of the specific asset.
Taxation The tax charge credit on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax: Current tax is the expected tax payable for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and anyadjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts ofthe assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes and is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Tax is charged or credited in the income statement or other comprehensive income OCI as appropriate, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint arrangements, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Foreign currency translation Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting Group undertaking are translated into thefunctional currency at the exchange rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate ruling at the year end.
Exchange differences arising on foreign exchange transactions and the retranslation of assets and liabilities into functional currencies at the rate ruling at the year end are taken into account in determining profit before taxation.
The trading results of Group undertakings are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the year.
The assets and liabilities of overseas undertakings, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the year end.
Exchange adjustments arising from the retranslation of the opening net investments, and from the translation of the profits or losses ataverage rates, are recognised in OCI.
The cumulative amount of exchange adjustments was, on transition to IFRS in 2004, deemed to be nil.
Financial instruments IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires the classification of financial instruments into separate categories forwhich the accounting requirement is different.
The Group has classified its financial instruments as follows: short-term investments are generally classified as available for sale: short-term deposits principally comprising funds held with banks and other financial institutions, trade receivables and short-term investments not designated as available for sale are classified as loans and receivables: borrowings, trade payables, financial RRSAs, put options on NCI, and C Shares are classified as other liabilities: and derivatives, comprising foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments are recognised at the contract date and initially measured at fair value.
Their subsequent measurement depends ontheir classification: Available for sale assets are held at fair value.
Changes in fair value arising from changes in exchange rates are included in the income statement.
All other changes in fair value are taken to equity.
On disposal, the accumulated changes in value recorded in equity are included in the gain or loss recorded in the income statement.
Loans and receivables and other liabilities are held at amortised cost and not revalued except for changes in exchange rates and forecast contractual cash flows, which are included in the income statement unless they are included in a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Where such a hedging relationship exists, the instruments are revalued in respect of the risk being hedged, with the change in value included in the income statement.
Fair value through profit or loss items are held at fair value.
Changes in fair value are included in the income statement unless the instrument is included in a cash flow hedge.
If the instruments are included in an effective cash flow hedging relationship, changes invalue are taken to equity.
When the hedged forecast transaction occurs, amounts previously recorded in equity are recognised intheincome statement.
Financial instruments are derecognised on expiry or when all contractual rights and obligations are transferred.
118 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued Hedge accounting The Group does not generally apply hedge accounting in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts or commodity swaps held to manage the cash flow exposures of forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies or in commodities respectively.
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of transactions entered into to manage the fair value and cash flow exposures of its borrowings.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are held to manage the fair value exposures of borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and are designated as fair value hedges.
Interest rate swaps are held to manage the interest rate exposures and are designated as fair value or cash flow hedges of fixed and floating rate borrowings respectively.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges and changes in fair value of the related hedged item are recognised directly in the income statement.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and are effective are recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffectiveness in the hedging relationships is included in the income statement.
The amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, for cash flow hedges and if the forecast transaction remains probable, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
The portion of a gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve will be recycled to profit when the foreign operation is sold.
Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
Where fair values of acquired contingent liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the assumed contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the same manner as other .
Goodwill recognised represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value to the Group of the net of theidentifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
On transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004, business combinations were not retrospectively adjusted to comply with Adopted IFRS and goodwill was recognised based on the carrying value under the previous accounting policies.
Goodwill in respect of the acquisition of a subsidiary is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint arrangements and associates is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Certification costs and participation fees Costs incurred in respect of meeting regulatory certification requirements for new civil aero-engine aircraft combinations including payments made to airframe manufacturers for this and participation fees are carried forward in intangible assets to the extent that they can be recovered out of future sales and are charged to the income statement over the programme life, up to a maximum of 15 years from the entry into service of the product.
Research and development In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets, expenditure incurred on research and development is distinguished as relating either to a research phase or to a development phase.
All research phase expenditure is charged to the income statement.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an internally generated intangible asset only if it meets strict criteria, relating in particular to technical feasibility and generation of future economic benefits.
As described on page 115, the Group considers that it is not possible to distinguish reliably between research and development activities until relatively late in the programme.
Expenditure capitalised is amortised over its useful economic life, up to a maximum of 15 years from the entry into service of the product.
Contractual aftermarket rights As described under key judgements on page 113, the Group may sell OE to customers at a price below its cost, on the basis that it also receives valuable aftermarket rights.
Such a sale is considered to give rise to an intangible asset which is recognised, in accordance with IAS 38, at the same time as the revenue at an amount equal to the cash deficit and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period that highly probable aftermarket sales are expected to be earned.
Customer relationships The fair value of customer relationships recognised as a result of a business combination relate to the acquired companys established relationships with its existing customers that result in repeat purchases and customer loyalty.
Amortisation occurs on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life, up to a maximum of 15 years.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 119 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Software The cost of acquiring software that is not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment is classified as an intangible asset and amortised over its useful economic life, up to a maximum of five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives.
No depreciation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: i land and buildings, as advised by the Groups professional advisers: a freehold buildings five to 45 years average 25 years : b leasehold buildings lower of advisers estimates or period of lease: c no depreciation is provided on freehold land: ii plant and equipment five to 25 years average 13 years : iii aircraft and engines five to 20 years average 13 years.
Operating leases Payments made and rentals received under operating lease arrangements are charged credited to the income statement on a straightlinebasis.
Impairment of non-current assets Impairment of non-current assets is considered in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent of other assets, impairment is considered for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually.
Other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments are assessed for any indications of impairment annually.
If any indication of impairment is identified, an impairment test is performed to estimate the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be below the carrying value, the carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised as an expense.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or fair value less costs to sell, if this is readily available.
The value in use is the present value of future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the time value of money and the risk specific to the asset.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first-in, first-out basis.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, including depreciation of property, plant and equipment, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling prices less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, investments in money-market funds and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less on inception.
The Group considers overdrafts repayable on demand to be an integral part of its cash management activities and these are included in cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Post-retirement benefits Pensions and similar benefits principally healthcare are accounted for under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value, using a discount rate derived from high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency of the plan, whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Surpluses in schemes are recognised as assets only if they represent economic benefits available to the Group in the future.
A liability is recognised to the extent that the minimum funding requirements in respect of past service will give rise to an unrecognisable surplus.
The service and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: current service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees: past service costs are recognised immediately: and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses and movements in unrecognised surpluses and minimum funding liabilities are recognised immediately in OCI.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
120 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group provides share-based payment arrangements to certain employees.
These are principally equity-settled arrangements and are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares or options that will vest, except where additional shares vest as a result of the total shareholder return TSR performance condition in the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Cash-settled share options grants in the International ShareSave plan are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet date based on these fair values, taking into account the estimated number of options that will actually vest and the relative completion of the vesting period.
Changes in the value of this liability are recognised in the income statement for the year.
The cost of shares of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc held by the Group for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of employee share plans is deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
See note 21 for a further description of the share-based payment plans.
Sales financing support In connection with the sale of its products, the Group will, on occasion, provide financing support for its customers.
These arrangements fall into two categories: credit-based guarantees and asset-value guarantees.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, credit-based guarantees are treated as insurance contracts.
The Group considers asset-value guarantees to be non-financial liabilities and accordingly these are also treated as insurance contracts.
As described on page 115, the Directors consider the likelihood of crystallisation in assessing whether provision is required for any contingent liabilities.
The Groups contingent liabilities relating to financing arrangements are spread over many years and relate to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio, and are reported on a discounted basis.
Revisions to Adopted IFRS in 2015 There were no changes to accounting standards that had a material impact on the 2015 financial statements.
Revisions to IFRS not applicable in 2015 Standards and interpretations issued by the IASB are only applicable if endorsed by the EU.
Once endorsed, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes, but is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the year ending 31 December 2018, not yet endorsed by the EU provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services tocustomers.
It replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction contracts currently included in IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue.
Given the nature of the Groups long-term contracts, it is likely that the adoption of IFRS 15 will require significant judgement.
Based on the provisional assessment, IFRS 15 will have a significant impact on the timing of recognition of revenue on individual long-term contracts, most particularly in the Civil Aerospace business, although this impact is likely to be significantly reduced at a Group level when all long-term contracts with different start and end dates are combined.
The key areas of judgement are: i whether contractual aftermarket rights can continue to be recognised: ii whether OE and TotalCare contracts can be linked for accounting purposes: and iii how performance should be measured on TotalCare contracts.
The Group will continue to assess the impact during 2016 and also consider the interpretations ofother aerospace and defence companies.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 31 December 2019, not yet endorsed by the EU will require all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only requires leases categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the balance sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised.
In broad terms, the impact will be to recognise a lease liability and corresponding asset forthe operating lease commitments set out in note 22.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 121 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental analysis The analysis by Division business segment is presented in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, on the basis of those segments whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8, as follows: AEROSPACE DIVISION: Civil development, manufacture, marketing and sales of commercial aero engines and aftermarket services.
Defence development, manufacture, marketing and sales of military aero engines and aftermarket services.
LAND & SEA DIVISION: Power Systems development, manufacture, marketing and sales of reciprocating engines and power systems.
Marine development, manufacture, marketing and sales of marine-power propulsion systems and aftermarket services.
Nuclear development, manufacture, marketing and sales of nuclear systems for civil power generation and naval propulsion systems.
The Energy business was sold on 1 December 2014 and is excluded from the 2014 comparative figures.
The residual businesses previously included in the Energy sector and costs associated with the wind-down are shown as Other.
The operating results reviewed by the Board are prepared on an underlying basis, which the Board considers reflects better the economic substance of the Groups trading during the year.
Additional disclosure of the two segments is also provided.
The principles adopted to determine underlying results are: Underlying revenues Where revenues are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group undertaking, these reflect the achieved exchange rates arising on settled derivative contracts.
Underlying profit before financing Where transactions are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group undertaking, this reflects the transactions at the achieved exchange rates on settled derivative contracts.
In addition, adjustments have been made to exclude one-off past service credits on post-retirement schemes, exceptional restructuring costs, the effect of acquisition accounting and the impairment of goodwill.
Underlying profit before taxation In addition to those adjustments in underlying profit before financing: includes amounts realised from settled derivative contracts and revaluation of relevant assets and liabilities to exchange rates forecast to be achieved from future settlement of derivative contracts: and excludes unrealised amounts arising from revaluations required by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, changesin value of financial RRSA contracts arising from changes in forecast payments, changes in the value of put options on NCI andthe net impact of financing costs related to post-retirement scheme benefits.
Taxation the tax effect of the adjustments above are excluded from the underlying tax charge.
In addition changes in the amount ofrecoverable advance corporation tax recognised and the impact of changes in tax rates are also excluded.
This analysis also includes a reconciliation of the underlying results to those reported in the consolidated income statement.
2 The basis for the allocation of Civil Aerospace revenues on linked TotalCare contracts between OE and aftermarket has been reviewed and amendments made to reflect better the commercial substance of the combined contracts.
Historically, the allocation has resulted in OE revenue and aftermarket revenue reflecting the contractual terms rather than the commercial substance of the contracts.
The 2014 figures have been restated on the same basis: the impact was an increase in OE revenue of 198m and an equal decrease in aftermarket revenue.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 123 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental analysis continued RECONCILIATION TO REPORTED RESULTS Total reportable Underlying Total Underlying Discontinued segments central items underlying adjustments business Group m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Revenue from sale of original equipment 6,724 6,724 215 6,939 Revenue from aftermarket services 6,630 6,630 156 6,786 Total revenue 13,354 13,354 371 13,725 Gross profit 3,182 3,182 84 3,266 Other operating income 10 10 1 Commercial and administrative costs 953 51 1,004 55 1,059 Restructuring 39 39 39 Research and development costs 765 765 53 818 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 118 118 18 100 Profit on disposal of businesses 2 2 Profit before financing and taxation 1,543 51 1,492 9 1,501 Net financing 60 60 1,281 1,341 Profit before taxation 111 1,432 1,272 160 Taxation 351 351 275 76 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,081 997 84 Profit for the year from discontinued operations Profit for the year 1,081 997 84 Attributable to: Ordinary shareholders 1,080 997 83 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Year ended 31 December 2014 Revenue from sale of original equipment 7,418 7,418 1 7,417 Revenue from aftermarket services 6,446 6,446 127 6,319 Total revenue 13,864 13,864 128 13,736 Gross profit 3,523 3,523 320 3,203 Other operating income 10 10 1 Commercial and administrative costs 1,016 53 1,069 55 1,124 Restructuring 149 149 149 Research and development costs 730 730 63 793 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 106 106 12 94 Profit on transfer of joint ventures to subsidiaries 2 2 Profit on disposal of businesses 6 6 Profit before financing and taxation 1,734 53 1,681 283 1,398 Net financing 61 61 1,270 1,331 Profit before taxation 114 1,620 1,553 67 Taxation 388 388 237 151 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,232 1,316 84 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 142 142 Profit for the year 1,232 1,316 142 58 Attributable to: Ordinary shareholders 1,226 1,299 142 69 Non-controlling interests 6 17 11 1 Central corporate costs.
CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2014 m Revenue 713 Profit before taxation 1 Tax on ordinary activities 3 Profit for the year from ordinary activities 4 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 136 Tax on profit on disposal of discontinued operations 2 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 142 Net cash outflow from operating activities 127 Net cash outflow from investing activities 35 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 162 124 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 2 Segmental analysis continued UNDERLYING ADJUSTMENTS 2015 2014 Profit before Net Profit before Net Revenue financing financing Taxation Revenue financing financing Taxation m m m m m m m m Underlying performance previously reported 14,588 1,678 61 387 Energy disposed in 2014 724 3 1 Underlying performance 13,354 1,492 60 351 13,864 1,681 61 388 Revenue recognised at exchange rate ondate of transaction 371 128 Realised losses gains on settled 1 derivative contracts 287 35 91 5 Net unrealised fair value changes to 2 derivative contracts 9 1,306 15 1,141 Effect of currency on contract accounting 9 13 Revaluation of trading assets and liabilities 13 20 11 8 Put option on NCI and financial RRSAs foreign exchange differences and other unrealised changes in value 8 87 3 Effect of acquisition accounting 124 142 Impairment of goodwill 75 Net post-retirement scheme financing 32 29 Gain on reclassification of joint ventures tosubsidiaries 2 Disposal of businesses 2 6 4 Restructuring 49 39 Other 1 6 5 Related tax effect 275 237 Total underlying adjustments 371 9 1,281 275 128 283 1,270 237 Reported per consolidated incomestatement 13,725 1,501 1,341 76 13,736 1,398 1,331 151 1 Realised losses gains on settled derivative contracts include adjustments to reflect the losses gains in the same period as the related trading cash flows.
2 Unrealised fair value changes to derivative contracts included in profit before financing: i include those included in equity accounted joint ventures: and ii exclude those for which the related trading contracts have been cancelled when the fair value changes are recognised immediately in underlying profit.
3 The adjustment eliminates charges recognised as a result of recognising assets in acquired businesses at fair value.
4 Restructuring is excluded from underlying performance when it concerns the closure of a significant business or site.
5 2015 includes an 18m credit relating to changes in UK tax rates.
2014 included a charge of 64m for the derecognition of advance corporation tax.
The reconciliation of underlying earnings per ordinary share is shown in note 6.
RECONCILIATION TO THE BALANCE SHEET 2015 2014 m m Reportable segment assets 17,092 16,608 Investments in joint ventures and associates 576 539 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 3,178 2,869 Fair value of swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings 74 80 Income tax assets 341 388 Post-retirement scheme surpluses 1,063 1,740 Total assets 22,324 22,224 Reportable segment liabilities 11,801 10,947 Borrowings 3,302 2,261 Fair value of swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings 61 22 Income tax liabilities 1,004 1,422 Post-retirement scheme deficits 1,140 1,185 Total liabilities 17,308 15,837 Net assets 5,016 6,387 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 125 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental analysis continued GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS The Groups revenue by destination from continuing operations is as follows: 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 1,780 1,599 Germany 642 734 Switzerland 782 670 Norway 280 322 France 249 292 Italy 222 201 Spain 200 113 Russia 59 86 Rest of Europe 786 575 Europe 5,000 4,592 United States of America 3,591 3,751 Canada 475 472 North America 4,066 4,223 South America 425 407 Saudi Arabia 365 327 Rest of Middle East 445 418 Middle East 810 745 China 1,236 1,290 South Korea 278 485 Singapore 549 396 Malaysia 78 280 Japan 136 272 India 99 161 Rest of Asia 546 493 Asia 2,922 3,377 Africa 144 115 Australasia 278 207 Other 80 70 13,725 13,736 No single customer represented 10% or more of the Groups revenue.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit surpluses, by the geographical area in which the assets are located, are as follows: 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 4,072 3,864 United States of America 835 827 Nordic countries 598 724 Germany 2,339 2,493 Other 900 912 8,744 8,820 126 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 3 Research and development 2015 2014 m m Expenditure in the year 831 818 Capitalised as intangible assets 51 83 Amortisation of capitalised costs 136 125 Net research and development cost 916 860 Entry fees received 83 51 Entry fees deferred in respect of charges in future years 28 38 Recognition of previously deferred entry fees 43 54 Net cost recognised in the income statement 818 793 Underlying adjustments relating to effects of acquisition accounting and foreign exchange 53 63 Net underlying cost recognised in the income statement 765 730 Discontinued operations 25 Net underlying cost recognised in the income statement previously reported 755 4 Net financing 2015 2014 Per Per consolidated consolidated income Underlying income Underlying 2 2 statement financing statement financing Notes m m m m Financing income Interest receivable 12 12 17 17 1 Fair value gains on foreign currency contracts 17 2 Put option on NCI and financial RRSAs foreign exchange differences and other unrealised changes in value 17 21 89 Finance income on post-retirement scheme surpluses 19 65 13 3 Net foreign exchange gains 17 32 115 44 121 17 Financing costs Interest payable 71 71 63 63 1 Fair value losses on foreign currency contracts 17 1,217 1,127 Put option on NCI and financial RRSAs financing 17 8 8 7 5 Put option on NCI and financial RRSAs foreign exchange differences and other unrealised changes in value 17 13 174 1 Fair value losses on commodity derivatives 17 89 15 Finance cost on post-retirement scheme deficits 19 33 42 Net foreign exchange losses 13 Other financing charges 25 25 11 10 1,456 104 1,452 78 Net financing 1,341 60 1,331 61 Analysed as: Net interest payable 59 59 46 46 Net post-retirement scheme financing 32 29 Net other financing 1,314 1 1,256 15 Net financing 1,341 60 1,331 61 1 Net loss on fair value items through profit or loss 1,306 1,140 2 See note 2 3 The underlying financing income includes 34m from gains on settlement of foreign exchange contracts following the receipt in the UK of dividends from overseas subsidiaries.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 127 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 Taxation UK Overseas Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Current tax Current tax charge for the year 9 8 157 240 166 248 Less double tax relief 9 8 157 240 166 248 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 1 23 12 17 13 15 9 134 252 149 261 Deferred tax Deferred tax credit for the year 37 72 23 77 60 149 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 14 5 11 5 25 Derecognition of advance corporation tax 64 64 Deferred tax credit resulting from reduction in tax rates 18 18 45 22 28 88 73 110 Recognised in the income statement 30 13 106 164 76 151 OTHER TAX CREDITS CHARGES OCI Equity Items that will not Items that may be reclassified be reclassified 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Current tax: Share-based payments direct to equity 3 Deferred tax: Movement in post-retirement schemes 257 431 Share-based payments direct to equity 6 7 Net investment hedge 2 2 257 431 2 2 6 4 TAX RECONCILIATION ON CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2015 2014 m m Profit before taxation 160 67 Less share of results of joint ventures and associates note 11 100 94 Profit before taxation excluding joint ventures and associates 60 27 Nominal tax charge at UK corporation tax rate 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 12 6 UK R&D credit 6 1 Rate differences 63 71 Impairment of goodwill 13 Change in value of put option on NCI 17 Other permanent differences 5 22 Benefit to deferred tax from previously unrecognised tax losses and temporary differences 7 3 Tax losses in year not recognised in deferred tax 20 4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 12 Derecognition of advance corporation tax 64 Reduction in closing deferred taxes resulting from decrease in tax rates 18 76 151 Underlying items note 2 351 388 Non-underlying items 275 237 76 151 1 Rate differences mainly relate to tax on profits in countries, such as the US and Germany, which have higher tax rates than the UK.
128 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 5 Taxation continued TAX ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2015 2014 m m Tax credit on ordinary activities of the discontinued operations 3 Tax credit on profit on disposal of discontinued operations 2 5 DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 859 566 Amount credited to income statement 73 120 Amount credited charged to other comprehensive income 255 433 Amount charged to equity 6 7 Acquisition of businesses 3 Exchange differences 16 30 At 31 December 521 859 Deferred tax assets 318 369 Deferred tax liabilities 839 1,228 521 859 The analysis of the deferred tax position is as follows: At Recognised At 1 January in income Recognised Recognised Exchange 31 December 2015 statement in OCI in equity differences 2015 m m m m m m Intangible assets 455 52 11 392 Property, plant and equipment 195 7 2 190 Other temporary differences 97 69 2 7 2 21 Amounts recoverable on contracts 526 13 539 Pensions and other post-retirement scheme benefits 324 30 257 7 90 Foreign exchange and commodity financial assets andliabilities 135 171 306 Losses 393 49 1 2 343 R&D expenditure credit 16 4 20 Advance corporation tax 859 73 255 6 16 521 At Recognised At 1 January in income Recognised Recognised Disposals Exchange 31 December 2014 statement in OCI in equity of businesses movements 2014 m m m m m m m Intangible assets 511 41 15 455 Property, plant and equipment 210 20 6 1 195 Other temporary differences 80 23 2 10 1 7 97 Amounts recoverable on contracts 380 146 526 Pensions and other post-retirement scheme benefits 153 54 431 8 324 Foreign exchange and commodity financial assets andliabilities 92 226 1 135 Losses 323 65 3 4 2 393 R&D expenditure credit 7 9 16 Advance corporation tax 64 64 566 120 433 7 3 30 859 Included in: Taxation 110 Discontinued operations 10 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 129 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 Taxation continued UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 2015 2014 m m Advance corporation tax 182 182 Losses and other unrecognised deferred tax assets 36 35 1 Deferred tax not recognised on unused tax losses and other items on the basis that future economic benefit is uncertain 218 217 1 Advance corporation tax, tax losses and other deductible temporary differences are not expected to expire under current legislation.
DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The Summer Budget 2015 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020: these reductions were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
As the reductions were substantively enacted prior to the year end, theclosing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated at this rate.
The resulting charges or credits have been recognised in theincome statement except to the extent that they relate to items previously charged or credited to OCI or equity.
Accordingly, in 2015, 18m has been credited to the income statement and 3m has been charged directly to equity.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, for which a deferred tax liability hasnot been recognised, aggregate to 347m 2014: 512m.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the potential withholding taxdue on the remittance of undistributed profits as the Group is able to control the timing of such remittances and it is probable that consent will not be given in the foreseeable future.
6 Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share EPS are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held under trust, which have been treated as if they had beencancelled.
Diluted EPS are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year for the bonus element ofshare options.
2015 2014 Potentially Potentially dilutive dilutive 1 Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders m : Continuing operations 83 83 73 73 Discontinued operations 142 142 83 83 69 69 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 1,839 12 1,851 1,874 18 1,892 EPS pence : Continuing operations 4.51 0.03 4.48 3.90 3.90 Discontinued operations 7.58 7.58 4.51 0.03 4.48 3.68 3.68 1 As profit from continuing operations is negative, the effect of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is anti-dilutive.
The reconciliation between underlying EPS and basic EPS is as follows: 2015 2014 Pence m Pence m Underlying EPS Underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 58.73 1,080 65.42 1,226 Total underlying adjustments to profit before tax note 2 69.17 1,272 82.88 1,553 Related tax effects 14.95 275 12.65 237 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 7.58 142 Related NCI effects 0.91 17 EPS Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4.51 83 3.68 69 Diluted underlying EPS 58.35 64.80 130 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 7 Employee information 2015 2014 Number Number Average number of employees United Kingdom 23,200 24,500 United States of America 6,400 7,900 Canada 1,100 1,500 Germany 10,700 10,500 Nordics 3,800 4,000 Rest of world 5,300 5,700 50,500 54,100 Civil 23,200 23,900 Defence 6,400 7,000 Aerospace 29,600 30,900 Power Systems 10,600 10,700 Marine 6,000 6,400 Nuclear 4,100 4,100 Other 2014: included discontinued operations 200 2,000 Land & Sea 20,900 23,200 50,500 54,100 m m 1 Group employment costs Wages and salaries 2,442 2,646 Social security costs 334 362 Share-based payments note 21 5 21 Pensions and other post-retirement scheme benefits note 19 299 328 3,080 3,357 1 Remuneration of key management personnel is shown in note 24.
8 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates were as follows: 2015 2014 m m 1 Fees payable to the Company's auditors for the audit of the Company's annual financial statements 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Company's auditors and its associates for the audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 5.6 5.5 Total fees payable for audit services 5.9 5.7 Fees payable to the Company's auditors and its associates for other services: 2 Audit related assurance services 1.3 1.1 Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.7 All other services 0.4 7.6 7.9 Fees payable in respect of the Group's pension schemes: Audit 0.2 0.2 1 T he level of fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements reflects the fact that limited incremental work is required in respect of the audit of these financial statements.
Rolls-Royce plc, a subsidiary of the Company, is also required to prepare consolidated financial statements and the fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of those financial statements, including the audit of the sub-consolidation, is included in the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation.
2 This includes 0.3m 2014: 0.3m for the review of the half-year report.
During 2014, a number of minor inconsistencies in these classifications were identified and amended.
The net movement of 2m relates to software previously included in property, plant and equipment.
2 Charged to cost of sales except development costs, which are charged to research and development costs.
GOODWILL In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill as follows: CASH-GENERATING UNIT CGU OR GROUP OF CGUs Primary reporting 2015 2014 segment m m Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Civil Aerospace 202 215 Commercial marine arising from the acquisitions of Vinters Limited and Scandinavian Electric Holding AS Marine 491 552 Commercial marine arising from the acquisition of ODIM ASA Marine 25 77 Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG Power Systems 739 760 Other Various 46 55 1,503 1,659 132 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 9 Intangible assets continued Goodwill has been tested for impairment during 2015 on the following basis: The carrying values of goodwill have been assessed by reference to value in use.
These have been estimated using cash flows from the most recent forecasts prepared by management, which are consistent with past experience and external sources of information on market conditions.
Given the long-term and established nature of many of the Groups products product lives are often measured in decades, these forecasts generally cover the next ten years.
Growth rates for the period not covered by the forecasts are based on a range of growth rates 2.0-2.75% that reflect the products, industries and countries in which the relevant CGU or group of CGUs operate.
The key assumptions for the impairment tests are the discount rate and, in the cash flow projections, the programme assumptions, thegrowth rates and the impact of foreign exchange rates on the relationship between selling prices and costs.
Impairment tests are performed using prevailing exchange rates.
The pre-tax cash flow projections have been discounted at rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risk where appropriate.
The discount rate used, before taking account of specific risks, is 13% 2014:13%.
As a result of the continuing poor market conditions in the Marine offshore business caused by the low crude oil price and the consequential reduced order intake in the period, the Group has recognised an impairment loss of 69m included in the total impairment charge of 75m to the carrying value of goodwill of cash generating units in this market.
This is included in cost of sales in the income statement, but excluded from the underlying results.
The impairment loss primarily relates to the cash generating units Scandinavian Electric Holding AS acquired in 2008 and ODIM ASA acquired in 2010, which are both business operations included in Marine.
The impairment loss is based on a value in use calculation using cash flows forecast over a ten-year period and a pre-tax discount rate of 13% which indicated a recoverable amount of 74m compared with a pre-impairment carrying value of 143m.
The principal value in use assumptions for goodwill balances considered to be individually significant are: Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG Volume of equipment deliveries, pricing achieved and cost escalation.
These are based on current and known future programmes, estimates of capture of market share and long-term economic forecasts.
The principal foreign exchange exposures are on translating income in a variety of non-functional currencies into euros.
For the purposes of the impairment only, cash flows from recent management forecasts for a five-year period have been included.
Cash flows beyond five years are assumed to grow at 2% 2014 2%.
Reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would cause the value in use of the goodwill to fall below its carrying value, which include a reduction in the level of cash generation of 9%, or an increase in the assumed discount rate of 2%.
Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Volume of engine deliveries, flying hours of installed fleet and cost escalation.
These are based oncurrent and known future programmes, estimates of customers fleet requirements and long-term economic forecasts.
The principal foreign exchange exposure is on translating US dollar income into euros.
For the purposes of the impairment test only, cash flows beyond the ten-year forecasts are assumed to grow at 2.5% 2014: 2.5%.
The Directors do not consider that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would cause the value in use of the goodwill to fall below its carrying value.
The overall level of business would need to reduce by more than 69% to cause an impairment of this balance.
Vinters Limited Volume of equipment deliveries, capture of aftermarket and cost escalation.
These are based on current and known future programmes, estimates of customers fleet requirements and long-term economic forecasts.
The principal foreign exchange exposures are on translating income in a variety of non-functional currencies into Norwegian kroner.
The overall level of business would need to reduce by more than 54% to cause an impairment of this balance.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Certification costs and participation fees, development costs and contractual aftermarket rights have been reviewed for impairment inaccordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where an impairment test was considered necessary, it has been performed on the following basis: The carrying values have been assessed by reference to value in use.
These have been estimated using cash flows from the most recent forecasts prepared by management, which are consistent with past experience and external sources of information on market conditions over the lives of the respective programmes.
The key assumptions underlying cash flow projections are assumed market share, programme timings, unit cost assumptions, discount rates, and foreign exchange rates.
The pre-tax cash flow projections have been discounted at 11% 2014: 11%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, reduced where relevant to take account of the lower risk associated with contracted aftermarket flows.
No impairment is required on this basis.
However, a combination of changes in assumptions and adverse movements in variables that areoutside the Groups control discount rate, exchange rate and airframe delays, could result in impairment in future years.
During the year, following analysis of the first major overhauls of the Trent 1000 engines, the recoverable amount of certain contractual aftermarket rights have been reassessed.
This analysis demonstrated that the aftermarket cash flows from the engines were better than originally assumed, arising from both operational and contractual performance improvements.
As a result of this analysis, the value in use based on a pre-tax discount rate of 9% has increased to around 140m, exceeding the unimpaired carrying value of 72m.
Accordingly, cumulative impairments prior to 2015 of 50m have been reversed.
This reversal is included in the Civil Aerospace business cost of sales.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 133 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Aircraft In course of buildings equipment and engines construction Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2014 1,297 3,490 324 700 5,811 Exchange differences 23 42 1 2 64 Additions 24 160 57 427 668 Acquisitions of businesses 38 38 Disposals of businesses 88 94 77 28 287 Reclassifications 134 137 32 305 2 Disposals write-offs 10 51 52 1 114 At 1 January 2015 1,334 3,600 321 795 6,050 Exchange differences 20 39 2 3 64 Additions 18 117 19 340 494 Acquisitions of businesses 1 1 Disposals of businesses 1 1 Reclassifications 81 335 7 423 Transferred to assets held for sale 8 23 2 33 Disposals write-offs 30 96 4 1 131 At 31 December 2015 1,375 3,894 339 708 6,316 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 January 2014 386 1,949 84 2,419 Exchange differences 8 26 34 1 Charge for the year 49 294 31 374 Impairment 1 1 Reclassifications 29 62 9 100 Disposals write-offs 7 46 3 56 At 1 January 2015 391 2,109 103 1 2,604 Exchange differences 7 24 1 32 1 Charge for the year 48 299 26 373 Impairment 3 2 5 Disposals of businesses 1 1 Transferred to assets held for sale 5 20 1 26 Disposals write-offs 14 81 2 97 At 31 December 2015 416 2,284 125 1 2,826 Net book value: At 31 December 2015 959 1,610 214 707 3,490 At 31 December 2014 943 1,491 218 794 3,446 At 1 January 2014 911 1,541 240 700 3,392 1 Depreciation charged during the year is presented in the income statement or included in the cost of inventory as appropriate.
134 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Property, plant and equipment includes: 2015 2014 m m Net book value of finance leased assets: Land and buildings 5 6 Plant and equipment 7 9 Aircraft and engines 40 43 Assets held for use in operating leases: Cost 321 267 Depreciation 87 64 Net book value 234 203 Capital expenditure commitments 167 194 Cost of fully depreciated assets 853 792 The Groups share of equity accounted entities capital commitments is 75m 2014: 82m.
11 Investments COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP The entities contributing to the Groups financial results are listed on pages 160 to 166.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS In 2015 the Group did not have any material non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
On 7 March 2014, Daimler AG announced its intention toexercise its put option on its 50% of Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH RRPSH.
Formal notice of this intention was served on24March 2014.
From this date, the Group had an effective economic interest in RRPSH of 100% and NCI of 584m was transferred to retained earnings.
The Group acquired the shares on 26 August 2014, giving it a 100% interest in RRPSH.
Summarised financial information for RRPSH is as follows: At 24 March 1 2014 m Current assets 1,529 Non-current assets 2,511 Current liabilities 974 Non-current liabilities 1,118 Equity attributable to Rolls-Royce shareholders 1,364 Non-controlling interests 584 1 Immediately prior to the exercise of the put option Period to 24 March 2014 m Revenue 551 Loss for the period 25 Attributable to ordinary shareholders 12 Non-controlling interests 12 Total comprehensive income for the period 69 Attributable to ordinary shareholders 35 Non-controlling interests 35 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 76 Cash flow from operating activities 33 Cash flow from investing activities 17 Cash flow from financing activities 158 Net cash outflow 142 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 135 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 Investments continued EQUITY ACCOUNTED AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Equity accounted Other Joint ventures Associates Total Unlisted m m m m At 1 January 2014 599 2 601 27 1 Reclassification 25 25 Exchange differences 7 7 2 Additions 15 2 17 11 Taxation paid by the Group 3 3 Transfer to subsidiary 1 1 Share of retained profit 23 23 Disposals 70 70 Return of capital 3 3 Consolidation of previously non-consolidated subsidiary 5 Share of OCI may be reclassified to profit or loss 13 13 At 1 January 2015 535 4 539 31 Exchange differences 7 7 2 Additions 12 3 15 6 Taxation paid by the Group 3 3 Share of retained profit loss 42 5 37 Impairment 2 Share of OCI may be reclassified to profit or loss 19 19 At 31 December 2015 574 2 576 33 1 The reclassification relates to an adjustment in 2013 relating to transactions between the Group and a joint venture which was included in creditors.
It was transferred to investments in joint ventures in 2014.
RECONCILIATION TO THE INCOME STATEMENT AND CASH FLOW STATEMENT Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Share of profit after tax 100 94 2 100 96 Share of dividends paid 63 71 2 63 73 Share of retained profit 37 23 37 23 The following joint ventures are considered to be individually material to the Group: Principal location Activity Ownership interest Alpha Partners Leasing Limited APL UK Aero engine leasing 50.0% Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited HAESL Hong Kong Aero engine repair and overhaul 45.0% Singapore Aero Engine Services Pte Limited SAESL Singapore Aero engine repair and overhaul 39.0% Industria fide Turbo Propulsores SA ITP Spain Aero engine component manufacture and maintenance 46.9% 136 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 11 Investments continued Summarised financial information of the Groups individually material joint ventures is as follows: APL HAESL SAESL ITP 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m m m Revenue 130 105 652 652 626 815 520 529 Profit from continuing operations 65 39 27 34 46 60 40 24 Post-tax profit from discontinued operations Profit for the year 65 39 27 34 46 60 40 24 Other comprehensive operations Total comprehensive income for the year 65 39 27 34 46 60 40 24 Dividends received during the year 29 13 23 30 35 56 19 19 Profit for the year included the following: Depreciation and amortisation 59 47 8 8 5 5 37 37 Interest income 10 19 Interest expense 17 15 1 1 1 16 12 Income tax expense 7 11 5 7 7 4 Current assets 129 72 223 159 218 207 576 603 Non-current assets 1,349 1,171 85 86 125 102 554 525 Current liabilities 70 62 116 61 75 88 416 415 Non-current liabilities 1,123 959 38 37 136 106 431 418 Net assets 285 222 154 147 132 115 283 295 Included in the above: Cash and cash equivalents 20 11 4 8 10 11 225 256 1 Current financial liabilities 19 13 25 10 1 Non-current financial liabilities 969 815 30 29 136 106 273 282 1 Excluding trade and other payables.
Reconciliation to the carrying amount recognised in the consolidated financial statements Ownership interest 50.0% 50.0% 45.0% 45.0% 39.0% 39.0% 46.9% 46.9% Group share of net assets above 143 111 69 66 51 45 133 138 The summarised aggregated results of the Groups share of all equity accounted investments is as follows: Joint ventures Associates Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Assets: Non-current assets 1,998 1,911 2 1,998 1,913 Current assets 843 715 2 4 845 719 2 Liabilities: Current liabilities 541 519 1 541 520 Non-current liabilities 1,726 1,572 1 1,726 1,573 574 535 2 4 576 539 2 Liabilities include borrowings of: 1,473 1,376 1,473 1,376 Post-tax profit from continuing operations 105 94 5 100 94 Post-tax profit from discontinued operations 2 2 Profit for the year 105 96 5 100 96 Other comprehensive income 19 13 13 Total comprehensive income for the year 86 83 5 100 83 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 137 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 509 553 Work in progress 882 984 Long-term contracts work in progress 23 22 Finished goods 1,173 1,149 Payments on account 50 60 2,637 2,768 Inventories stated at net realisable value 221 265 Amount of inventory write-down 64 62 Reversal of inventory write-down 14 1 13 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 1,612 1,531 1 Amounts recoverable on contracts 3,179 2,684 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 252 309 Other receivables 1,006 785 Prepayments and accrued income 195 200 6,244 5,509 Analysed as: Financial instruments note 17 : Trade receivables and similar items 2,061 1,981 Other non-derivative financial assets 843 671 Non-financial instruments 3,340 2,857 6,244 5,509 Trade and other receivables expected to be recovered in more than one year: Trade receivables 57 40 Amounts recoverable on contracts 2,768 2,444 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 1 Other receivables 131 61 Prepayments and accrued income 68 55 3,025 2,600 1 Amounts recoverable on contracts include 2,994m 2014: 2,492m of TotalCare assets 14 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 662 739 Money-market funds 783 692 Short-term deposits 1,731 1,431 3,176 2,862 Overdrafts note 15 Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement page 110 3,176 2,862 Cash held as collateral against third party obligations note 18 35 42 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 include 21m 2014: 30m that is not available for general use by the Group.
This balance relates to cash held in non-wholly owned subsidiaries and the Groups captive insurance company.
2 These notes are the subject of interest rate swap agreements under which the Group has undertaken to pay oating rates of interest which form a fair value hedge.
3 Obligations under finance leases are secured by related leased assets.
During the year, 21m 2014:24m of government grants were released to the income statement.
Included in accruals and deferred income are deferred receipts from RRSA workshare partners of 228m 2014: 244m and 783m 2014:687m of TotalCare liabilities.
Trade and other payables are analysed as follows: 2015 2014 m m Financial instruments note 17 : Trade payables and similar items 3,101 3,049 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 817 831 Non-financial instruments 5,322 5,356 9,240 9,236 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 139 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 Financial instruments CARRYING VALUES AND FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Assets Liabilities Total Fair value Fair value Basis for through Loans and Available through determining profit or loss receivables for sale Cash profit or loss Other Notes fair value m m m m m m m 2015 Unlisted non-current asset investments 11 A 33 33 Trade receivables and similar items 13 B 2,061 2,061 Other non-derivative financial assets 13 B 843 843 1 Derivative financial assets C 112 112 Short-term investments B 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 14 B 1,731 783 662 3,176 Borrowings 15 D 3,302 3,302 1 Derivative financial liabilities C 1,843 1,843 Financial RRSAs E 110 110 C Shares B 29 29 Trade payables and similar items 16 B 3,101 3,101 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 16 B 817 817 112 4,670 783 662 1,843 7,359 2,975 2014 Unlisted non-current asset investments 11 A 31 31 Trade receivables and similar items 13 B 1,981 1,981 Other non-derivative financial assets 13 B 671 671 1 Derivative financial assets C 129 129 Short-term investments B 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents 14 B 1,431 692 739 2,862 Borrowings 15 D 2,261 2,261 1 Derivative financial liabilities C 759 759 Financial RRSAs E 145 145 C Shares B 22 22 Trade payables and similar items 16 B 3,049 3,049 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 16 B 831 831 129 4,121 692 739 759 6,308 1,386 1 In the event of counterparty default relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities, offsetting would apply and financial assets and liabilities held with the same counterparty would net off.
If this occurred with every counterparty, total financial assets would be nil and liabilities 1,731m.
Fair values equate to book values for both 2015 and 2014, with the following exceptions: 2015 2014 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Borrowings 3,302 3,312 2,261 2,362 Financial RRSAs 110 110 145 152 The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms-length transaction.
Fair values have been determined with reference to available market information at the balance sheet date, using the methodologies described below.
A These primarily comprise unconsolidated companies where fair value approximates to the book value.
B Fair values are assumed to approximate to cost either due to the short-term maturity of the instruments or because the interest rate of the investments is reset after periods not exceeding six months.
C Fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting expected future contractual cash ows using prevailing interest rate curves.
Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
These financial instruments are included on the balance sheet at fair value, derived from observable market prices Level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
D Borrowings are carried at amortised cost.
E The fair value of RRSAs is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows.
The contractual cash flows are based on future trading activity, which is estimated based on latest forecasts Level 3 as defined by IFRS 13.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement defines a three level valuation hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices for similar instruments Level 2 directly observable market inputs other than Level 1 inputs Level 3 inputs not based on observable market data 140 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 17 Financial instruments continued CARRYING VALUES OF OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Foreign exchange Commodity Interest rate Total Financial contracts contracts contracts derivatives RRSAs C Shares Total m m m m m m m 2015 Non-current assets 3 80 83 83 Current assets 29 29 29 Assets 32 80 112 112 Current liabilities 244 39 283 19 29 331 Non-current liabilities 1,428 65 67 1,560 91 1,651 Liabilities 1,672 104 67 1,843 110 29 1,982 1,640 104 13 1,731 110 29 1,870 2014 Non-current assets 28 79 107 107 Current assets 22 22 22 Assets 50 79 129 129 Current liabilities 144 21 165 22 22 209 Non-current liabilities 545 22 27 594 123 717 Liabilities 689 43 27 759 145 22 926 639 43 52 630 145 22 797 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses various financial instruments to manage its exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Where the effectiveness ofa hedging relationship in a cash flow hedge is demonstrated, changes in the fair value that are deemed effective are included in the cash flow hedge reserve and released to match actual payments on the hedged item.
The Group uses commodity swaps to manage its exposure to movements in the price of commodities jet fuel and base metals.
To hedge the currency risk associated with a borrowing denominated in US dollars, the Group has currency derivatives designated as part of fair value hedges.
The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to manage its exposure to movements in interest rates.
Movements in the fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities were as follows: Foreign exchange instruments Commodity instruments Interest rate instruments Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 639 498 43 39 52 6 630 453 1 Currency options at inception 20 20 2 Movements in fair value hedges 1 3 36 58 35 61 3 Movements in other derivativecontracts 1,217 1,125 89 15 1,306 1,140 4 Contracts settled 235 15 28 11 3 260 4 At 31 December 1,640 639 104 43 13 52 1,731 630 1 The Group has written currency options to sell USD and buy GBP as part of a commercial agreement.
The fair value of this option on inception is treated as a discount to the customer 2 Gain on related hedged items 35m 2014: 61m loss 3 Included in financing 4 Includes 8m contracts settled in fair value hedges 2014: nil.
Contracts settled in 2014 included a loss of 76m in relation to contracts put in place to hedge the settlement of the put option on RRPS EXERCISE PRICE OF PUT OPTION ON NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS AND FINANCIAL RISK AND REVENUE SHARING ARRANGEMENTS The Group has financial liabilities arising from financial RRSAs.
These financial liabilities are valued at each reporting date using the amortised cost method.
This involves calculating the present value of the forecast cash ows of the arrangements using the internal rate of return at the inception of the arrangements as the discount rate.
The Group had agreed a put option with Daimler AG, such that Daimler could sell its interest in Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH to the Group.
Daimler AG exercised this option on 24 March 2014 and the Group acquired Daimlers 50% share of RRPSH on 26August 2014.
Prior to this, the fair value of the exercise value of this option was included as a financial liability.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 141 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 Financial instruments continued Movements in the carrying values were as follows: Put option on non-controlling Financial RRSAs interests 2015 2014 2014 m m m At 1 January 145 167 1,858 Exchange adjustments included in OCI 3 1 Financing charge 8 5 Excluded from underlying profit: 1 Financing charge 2 1 Changes in put option exercise price 166 1 Exchange adjustments 8 8 89 Cash paid to partners 35 32 Settlement of put option 1,937 At 31 December 110 145 1 Included in financing.
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange rate risk: liquidity risk: credit risk: interest rate risk: and commodity price risk.
The Board has approved policies for the management of these risks.
Foreign currency exchange rate risk The Group has significant cash ows most signicantly US dollars, followed by the euro denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant trading entity.
To manage its exposures to changes in values of future foreign currency cash ows, so as to maintain relatively stable long-term foreign exchange rates on settled transactions, the Group enters into derivative forward foreign currency transactions.
For accounting purposes, these derivative contracts are not designated as hedging instruments.
The Group also has exposures to the fair values of non-derivative financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
To manage the risk of changes in these fair values, the Group enters into derivative forward foreign exchange contracts, which are designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes.
The Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary companies as long-term investments.
The Group aims to match its translational exposures by matching the currencies of assets and liabilities.
Where appropriate, foreign currency financial liabilities may be designated as hedges of the net investment.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to hold financial investments and maintain undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its medium-term capital and funding obligations and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Group holds cash and short-term investments, which together with the undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments.
The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Groups risk management activities.
The Group has credit policies covering both trading and financial exposures.
Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the Group credit policy.
The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Groups exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring the Group transacts strictly with BBB or higher rated financial institutions based on pre-established limits per financial institution.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk to individual customers or counterparties.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk is primarily in relation to its xed rate borrowings fair value risk, oating rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents cash ow risk.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage the overall interest rate prole within the Group policy, which is to maintain a higher proportion of net debt at floating rates of interest as a natural hedge to the net cash position.
These are designated as either fair value or cash ow hedges as appropriate.
Commodity risk The Group has exposures to the price of jet fuel and base metals arising from business operations.
To minimise its cash ow exposures to changes in commodity prices, the Group enters into derivative commodity transactions.
Other price risk The Groups cash equivalent balances represent investments in money-market instruments, with a term of up to three months.
The Group does not consider that these are subject to significant price risk.
142 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 17 Financial instruments continued DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The nominal amounts, analysed by year of expected maturity, and fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Expected maturity Fair value Between Between Nominal Within one and two and After amount one year two years five years five years Assets Liabilities m m m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Foreign exchange contracts: Fair value hedges Non-hedge accounted 22,418 5,736 4,266 11,637 779 32 1,672 Interest rate contracts: Fair value hedges 2,437 500 1,937 74 61 Non-hedge accounted 6 6 Commodity contracts: Non-hedge accounted 268 90 72 83 23 104 25,123 5,826 4,338 12,220 2,739 112 1,843 At 31 December 2014 Foreign exchange contracts: Fair value hedges 46 46 6 Non-hedge accounted 20,889 5,431 4,793 10,665 44 689 Interest rate contracts: Fair value hedges 1,512 53 500 959 74 22 Non-hedge accounted 2 2 5 5 Commodity contracts: Non-hedge accounted 240 79 62 71 28 43 22,689 5,611 4,855 11,236 987 129 759 As described above, all derivative financial instruments are entered into for risk management purposes, although these may not be designated into hedging relationships for accounting purposes.
CURRENCY ANALYSIS Derivative financial instruments related to foreign exchange risks are denominated in the following currencies: Currencies purchased forward Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Currencies sold forward: Sterling 383 221 604 US dollar 18,869 1,552 902 21,323 Euro 2 76 125 203 Other 131 12 143 2 288 At 31 December 2014 Currencies sold forward: Sterling 429 199 628 US dollar 16,659 2,014 938 19,611 Euro 150 61 185 396 Other 167 9 114 10 300 Other derivative financial instruments are denominated in the following currencies: 2015 2014 m m Sterling 875 877 US dollar 1,279 292 Euro 550 584 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 143 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 Financial instruments continued Non-derivative financial instruments are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Unlisted non-current investments 1 31 1 33 Trade receivables and similar items 131 1,228 613 89 2,061 Other non-derivative financial assets 280 350 102 111 843 Short-term investments 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 1,554 959 446 217 3,176 Assets 1,965 2,538 1,192 420 6,115 Borrowings 1,369 1,162 768 3 3,302 Financial RRSAs 75 35 110 C Shares 29 29 Trade payables and similar items 1,536 859 523 183 3,101 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 242 303 139 133 817 Liabilities 3,176 2,399 1,465 319 7,359 1,211 139 273 101 1,244 At 31 December 2014 Unlisted non-current investments 30 1 31 Trade receivables and similar items 232 1,180 479 90 1,981 Other non-derivative financial assets 400 53 101 117 671 Short-term investments 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents 513 1,404 619 326 2,862 Assets 1,145 2,637 1,229 541 5,552 Borrowings 1,341 101 819 2,261 Financial RRSAs 97 48 145 C Shares 22 22 Trade payables and similar items 1,489 887 545 128 3,049 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 248 333 161 89 831 Liabilities 3,100 1,418 1,573 217 6,308 1,955 1,219 344 324 756 CURRENCY EXPOSURES The Groups actual currency exposures after taking account of derivative foreign currency contracts, which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes are as follows: Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total Functional currency of Group operations m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Sterling 1 27 28 US dollar 12 1 8 3 Euro 4 4 Other 3 1 1 3 At 31 December 2014 Sterling 28 2 35 65 US dollar 2 1 8 5 Euro 2 5 11 18 Other 5 19 6 1 31 144 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 17 Financial instruments continued AGEING BEYOND CONTRACTUAL DUE DATE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Between Up to three three months and More than Within months one year one year terms overdue overdue overdue Total m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Unlisted non-current asset investments 33 33 Trade receivables and similar items 1,745 184 98 34 2,061 Other non-derivative financial assets 835 5 1 2 843 Derivative financial assets 112 112 Short-term investments 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 3,176 3,176 5,903 189 99 36 6,227 At 31 December 2014 Unlisted non-current asset investments 31 31 Trade receivables and similar items 1,657 206 104 14 1,981 Other non-derivative financial assets 667 4 671 Derivative financial assets 129 129 Short-term investments 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents 2,862 2,862 5,353 210 104 14 5,681 CONTRACTUAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Gross values Between Between Within one and two and After Carrying one year two years five years five years Discounting value m m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Borrowings 530 161 1,317 1,897 603 3,302 Derivative financial liabilities 286 329 1,026 314 112 1,843 Financial RRSAs 16 20 76 10 12 110 C Shares 29 29 Trade payables and similar items 3,059 38 4 3,101 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 640 43 74 60 817 4,560 591 2,497 2,281 727 9,202 At 31 December 2014 Borrowings 148 385 214 1,880 366 2,261 Derivative financial liabilities 174 115 324 181 35 759 Financial RRSAs 17 19 72 52 15 145 C Shares 22 22 Trade payables and similar items 3,012 32 2 3 3,049 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 650 95 20 66 831 4,023 646 632 2,182 416 7,067 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 145 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 Financial instruments continued INTEREST RATE RISK In respect of income earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates and the periods in which they reprice.
The value shown is the carrying amount.
Period in which interest rate reprices Effective 6 months interest rate Total or less 6-12 months At 31 December 2015 % m m m 1 Short-term investments 2 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 3,176 3,176 Unsecured bank loans Other borrowings 129 1 200m floating rate loan GBP LIBOR 1.26 200 200 43m floating rate loan GBP LIBOR 0.402 43 43 125m fixed rate loan 2.6000% 92 75m fixed rate loan 2.0600% 55 50m fixed rate loan 2.3500% 28 Unsecured bond issues 3 7 8% Notes 2016 200m 7.3750% 200 6.75% Notes 2019 500m 6.7500% 536 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 2.9824 536 2.375% Notes 2020 $500m 2.3750% 333 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 0.8410 333 2.125% Notes 2021 750m 2.1250% 576 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 0.7005 576 3.625% Notes 2025 $1,000m 3.6250% 668 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 1.4658 668 3.375% Notes 2026 375m 3.3750% 390 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 0.8930 390 Other secured Obligations under finance leases 4.1089% 52 124 Period in which interest rate reprices Effective 6 months interest rate Total or less 6-12 months At 31 December 2014 % m m m 1 Short-term investments 7 5 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 2,862 2,862 Unsecured bank loans Other borrowings 12 1 Interest rate swaps 5.8156% 2 2 200m floating rate loan GBP LIBOR 1.26 200 200 125m fixed rate loan 2.6000% 97 75m fixed rate loan 2.0600% 59 50m fixed rate loan 2.3500% 36 Unsecured bond issues 3 7 % Notes 2016 200m 7.3750% 200 8 6.55% Notes 2015 US$83m 6.5500% 55 55 Effect of interest rate swaps USD LIBOR 1.24 55 55 6.75% Notes 2019 500m 6.7500% 547 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 2.9824 547 2.125% Notes 2021 750m 2.1250% 615 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 0.7005 615 3.375% Notes 2026 375m 3.3750% 395 Effect of interest rate swaps GBP LIBOR 0.8930 395 Other secured Obligations under finance leases 4.1089% 45 1 1 608 1 Interest on the short-term investments are at fixed rates.
2 Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and demand deposits and earn interest at rates based on daily deposit rates 146 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 17 Financial instruments continued Some of the Groups borrowings are subject to the Group meeting certain obligations, including customary financial covenants.
If the Group fails to meet its obligations these arrangements give rights to the lenders, upon agreement, to accelerate repayment of the facilities.
There are no rating triggers contained in any of the Groups facilities that could require the Group to accelerate or repay any facility for a given movement in the Groups credit rating.
In addition, the Group has 1,780m 2014: 1,277m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available for at least the next two years.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 2015 2014 Sensitivities at 31 December all other variables held constant impact on profit after tax and equity m m Sterling 10% weaker against the US dollar 1,574 1,336 Sterling 10% stronger against the US dollar 1,288 1,093 Euro 10% weaker against the US dollar 130 147 Euro 10% stronger against the US dollar 111 123 Sterling 10% weaker against the Euro 18 15 Sterling 10% stronger against the Euro 15 12 Commodity prices 10% lower 13 15 Commodity prices 10% higher 13 15 At 31 December 2015 the Group had no material sensitivity to changes in interest rates on that date.
The main interest rate sensitivity for the Group arises as a result of the gross up of net cash and this is mitigated as described under the interest rate risk management policies on page 142.
C SHARES AND PAYMENTS TO SHAREHOLDERS The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
C Shares in respect of a year are issued in the following year.
Shareholders are able to redeem any number of their C Shares for cash.
Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75% of LIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have limited voting rights.
The Company has the option to compulsorily redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares in issue is less than 10% of the aggregate number of C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
Movements in issued and fully paid C Shares during the year were as follows: 2015 2014 Nominal Nominal value value Millions m Millions m At 1 January 22,005 22 16,286 16 Issued 429,536 430 413,669 414 Redeemed 422,581 423 407,950 408 At 31 December 28,960 29 22,005 22 Payments to shareholders in respect of the year represent the value of C Shares to be issued in respect of the results for the year.
Issues of CShares were declared as follows: 2015 2014 Pence Pence per share m per share m Interim 9.27 170 9.00 170 Final 7.10 131 14.10 265 16.37 301 23.10 435 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 147 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges At Disposal Unused Charged to At 1 January Exchange of amounts income 31 December 2015 differences businesses reversed statement Utilised 2015 m m m m m m m Warranty and guarantees 426 14 1 28 106 108 381 Contract loss 41 1 1 10 13 36 Restructuring 122 30 106 132 66 Customer financing 47 27 11 11 20 Insurance 65 5 15 8 67 Other 106 2 9 2 27 70 807 17 1 100 250 299 640 Current liabilities 433 336 Non-current liabilities 374 304 Provisions for warranties and guarantees primarily relate to products sold and generally cover a period of up to three years.
Provisions for contract loss and restructuring are generally expected to be utilised within two years.
In connection with the sale of its products the Group will, on some occasions, provide nancing support for its customers generally inrespect of civil aircraft.
The Groups commitments relating to these nancing arrangements are spread over many years, relate toanumber of customers and a broad product portfolio and are generally secured on the asset subject to the financing.
These include commitments of US$3.1bn to provide borrowing facilities to enable customers to purchase aircraft of which approximately US$322m could be called during 2016.
These facilities may only be used if the customer is unable to obtain financing elsewhere and are priced at a premium to the market rate.
Consequently the Directors do not consider that there is a significant exposure arising from the provision ofthese facilities.
Customer financing provisions cover guarantees provided for asset value and or financing.
These guarantees, the risks arising and the process used to assess the extent of the risk are described under the heading Customer financing in the Financial review on page 46.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised as follows: 2015 2014 m m Potential claims with specific claim dates: In one year or less 3 32 In more than one year but less than five years 12 11 In more than five years 5 4 20 47 Commitments on delivered aircraft in excess of the amounts provided are shown in the table below.
These are reported on a discounted basis at the Groups borrowing rate to reect better the time span over which these exposures could arise.
These amounts do not represent values that are expected to crystallise.
The commitments are denominated in US dollars.
As the Group does not generally adopt cash flow hedge accounting for future foreign exchange transactions, this amount is reported, together with the sterling equivalent at the reporting date spot rate.
The values of aircraft providing security are based on advice from a specialist aircraft appraiser.
2015 2014 m $m m $m Gross commitments 269 399 388 605 1 Value of security 136 201 245 382 Indemnities 79 118 84 132 Net commitments 54 80 59 91 2 Net commitments with security reduced by 20% 78 115 90 140 1 Security includes unrestricted cash collateral of: 35 52 42 66 2 Although sensitivity calculations are complex, the reduction of relevant security by 20% illustrates the sensitivity to changes in this assumption.
The Groups captive insurance company retains a portion of the exposures it insures on behalf of the remainder of the Group.
Significant delays occur in the notification and settlement of claims and judgement is involved in assessing outstanding liabilities, the ultimate cost and timing of which cannot be known with certainty at the balance sheet date.
The insurance provisions are based on information currently available, however it is inherent in the nature of the business that ultimate liabilities may vary.
Provisions for outstanding claims are established to cover the outstanding expected liability as well as claims incurred but not yet reported.
Other provisions comprise a number of liabilities with varying expected utilisation rates.
148 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 19 Post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes: UK defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
Employees are entitled to retirement benefits based on either their final or career average salaries and length of service: and Overseas defined benefit schemes are a mixture of funded and unfunded plans and provide benefits in line with local practice.
Additionally in the US, and to a lesser extent in some other countries, the Groups employment practices include the provision of healthcare and life insurance benefits for retired employees.
The valuations of the defined benefit schemes are based on the most recent funding valuations, where relevant, updated by the scheme actuaries to 31 December 2015.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity, interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
In the UK, and in the principal US pension schemes, the Group has adopted investment policies to mitigate some of these risks.
This involves investing a significant proportion of the schemes assets in Liability Driven Investment portfolios, which hold investments designed to offset interest rate and inflation rate risks.
In addition, in the UK, the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund has invested in a longevity swap, which is designed to offset longevity risks in respect of existing pensioners.
In the UK, surpluses are recognised on schemes where, on ultimate wind-up when there are longer any remaining members, any surplus will be returned to the Group.
AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost and administrative expenses 169 52 221 156 45 201 Past-service and curtailment credit cost 16 8 8 18 13 31 153 60 213 138 32 170 Defined contribution schemes 33 85 118 32 97 129 Operating cost 186 145 331 170 129 299 Net financing in respect of defined benefit schemes 65 33 32 11 40 29 Total income statement charge 121 178 299 159 169 328 The operating cost is charged as follows: Defined benefit Defined contribution Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Cost of sales 147 117 80 84 227 201 Commercial and administrative costs 32 21 21 23 53 44 Research and development 34 27 17 17 51 44 Operating cost continuing operations 213 165 118 124 331 289 Discontinued operations 5 5 10 Total operating cost 213 170 118 129 331 299 The Group operates a PaySave scheme in the UK.
This is a salary sacrifice scheme under which employees elect to stop making employee contributions and the Group makes additional contributions in return for a reduction in gross contractual pay.
As a result, there is a decrease in wages and salaries and a corresponding increase in pension costs of 32m 2014: 35m in the year.
Net financing comprises: 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m Financing on scheme obligations 375 57 432 390 64 454 Financing on scheme assets 440 24 464 427 24 451 Financing on unrecognised surpluses and minimum funding liability 26 26 Net financing income charge in respect of defined benefit schemes 65 33 32 11 40 29 Financing income on scheme surpluses 65 65 13 13 Financing cost on scheme deficits 33 33 2 40 42 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 149 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 Post-retirement benefits continued AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN OCI IN RESPECT OF DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m Actuarial gains and losses arising from demographic assumptions 185 8 177 23 17 6 Actuarial gains and losses arising from financial assumptions 70 70 1,099 228 1,327 Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments 56 8 64 343 17 360 Return on scheme assets excluding financing income 593 16 609 2,258 55 2,313 Movement in unrecognised surplus and related finance cost 513 513 Movement in minimum funding liability and related finance cost 47 47 Included in other comprehensive income 792 70 722 1,399 207 1,192 AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET IN RESPECT OF DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 10,914 650 11,564 10,606 664 11,270 Fair value of scheme assets 11,957 597 12,554 12,341 593 12,934 Net asset liability on funded schemes 1,043 53 990 1,735 71 1,664 Present value of unfunded obligations 1,067 1,067 1,109 1,109 Net asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 1,043 1,120 77 1,735 1,180 555 Post-retirement scheme surpluses 1,059 4 1,063 1,735 5 1,740 Post-retirement scheme deficits 16 1,124 1,140 1,185 1,185 Overseas schemes are located in the following countries: 2015 2014 Assets Obligations Net Assets Obligations Net m m m m m m Canada 152 188 36 160 208 48 Germany 553 553 592 592 US pension schemes 429 513 84 414 508 94 US healthcare schemes 426 426 423 423 Other 16 37 21 19 42 23 Net asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 597 1,717 1,120 593 1,773 1,180 DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES Assumptions Significant actuarial assumptions for UK schemes weighted average, weighted by the size of the obligation used at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2015 2014 Discount rate 3.6% 3.6% 1 Inflation assumption RPI 3.2% 3.2% Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.2% Male life expectancy from age 65: current pensioner 22.8 years 22.5 years future pensioner currently aged 45 24.8 years 24.1 years 1 This is the assumption for the Retail Price Index.
The Consumer Price Index is assumed to be 1.1% lower Discount rates are determined by reference to the market yields on AA rated corporate bonds.
The rate is determined by using the profile of forecast benefit payments to derive a weighted average discount rate from the yield curve.
The inflation assumption is determined by the market implied assumption based on the yields on long-term indexed linked government securities and increases in salaries are based on actual experience, allowing for promotion, of the real increase above inflation.
The mortality assumptions adopted for the UK pension schemes are derived from the SAP actuarial tables, with future improvements in line with the CMI 2015 core projections and long-term improvements of 1.5%.
Where appropriate, these are adjusted to take account of the relevant schemes actual experience.
150 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 19 Post-retirement benefits continued Other assumptions have been set on advice from the relevant actuary, having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and the assumptions used in the most recent funding valuation.
The rate of increase of pensions in payment is based on the rules of the relevant scheme, combined with the inflation assumption where the increase is capped.
Assumptions for overseas schemes are less significant and are based on advice from local actuaries.
The principal assumptions are: 2015 2014 Discount rate 3.6% 3.3% Inflation assumption 2.2% 2.2% Long-term healthcare cost trend rate 5.0% 5.0% Male life expectancy from age 65: current pensioner 21.1 years 21.1 years future pensioner currently aged 45 23.3 years 23.3 years Changes in present value of defined benefit obligations 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 January 10,606 1,773 12,379 9,046 1,493 10,539 Exchange differences 17 17 7 7 Current service cost 164 50 214 151 44 195 Past service cost 16 5 11 18 16 34 Finance cost 375 58 433 390 63 453 Contributions by employees 3 4 7 4 5 9 Benefits paid out 417 75 492 376 71 447 Disposal of businesses 10 16 26 Actuarial losses gains 199 84 115 1,419 266 1,685 Settlement curtailment 6 6 Other movements 3 3 4 4 At 31 December 10,914 1,717 12,631 10,606 1,773 12,379 Funded schemes 10,914 650 11,564 10,606 664 11,270 Unfunded schemes 1,067 1,067 1,109 1,109 The defined benefit obligations are in respect of: Active plan participants 4,273 921 5,194 4,170 974 5,144 Deferred plan participants 1,946 130 2,076 2,009 97 2,106 Pensioners 4,695 666 5,361 4,427 702 5,129 Weighted average duration of obligations years 18 16 17 17 16 17 Changes in fair value of scheme assets 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 January 12,341 593 12,934 9,776 504 10,280 Exchange differences 2 2 18 18 Administrative expenses 5 2 7 5 1 6 Financing 440 24 464 427 24 451 Return on plan assets excluding financing 593 16 609 2,258 55 2,313 Contributions by employer 188 71 259 257 65 322 Contributions by employees 3 4 7 4 5 9 Benefits paid out 417 75 492 376 71 447 Settlements curtailment 6 6 At 31 December 11,957 597 12,554 12,341 593 12,934 Total return on scheme assets 153 8 145 2,685 79 2,764 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 151 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 Post-retirement benefits continued Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m Sovereign debt 7,283 297 7,580 7,282 167 7,449 Derivatives on sovereign debt 5 1 6 2,622 2 2,620 Corporate debt instruments 1,977 239 2,216 2,053 237 2,290 Interest rate swaps 1,868 1,868 4,218 4,218 Inflation swaps 477 477 360 360 Cash and similar instruments 118 21 139 193 127 320 1 Liability driven investment LDI portfolios 10,764 556 11,320 10,764 533 11,297 2 Longevity swap 142 142 10 10 Listed equities 810 1 811 787 3 790 Unlisted equities 232 232 216 216 Sovereign debt 110 3 113 105 4 109 Corporate debt instruments 24 24 15 15 Cash 68 21 89 166 32 198 Other 91 16 107 278 21 299 Fair value of scheme assets 11,957 597 12,554 12,341 593 12,934 1 A portfolio of gilt and swap contracts, backed by LIBOR generating assets, that is designed to hedge the majority of the interest rate and inflation risks associated with the schemes obligations.
2 Under the longevity swap, the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund has agreed an average life expectancy of pensioners with a counterparty.
If pensioners live longer than expected the counterparty will make payments to the Fund to offset the additional cost of paying pensioners.
If the reverse applies the cost of paying pensioners will be reduced but the scheme will be required to make payments to the counterparty.
The longevity swap is valued at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Level 3.
The scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The longevity swap is valued by the scheme actuaries based on the difference between the agreed longevity assumptions at inception and actual longevity experience.
All other fair values are provided by the fund managers.
Where available, the fair values are quoted prices eg.
listed equity, sovereign debt and corporate bonds.
Unlisted investments private equity are included at values provided by the fund manager in accordance with relevant guidance.
Other significant assets are valued based on observable inputs such as yield curves.
Movements in unrecognised surplus and minimum funding liability 2015 2014 UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 January 534 534 1 Movements in unrecognised surplus through OCI 513 513 2 Movements in minimum funding liability through OCI 47 47 Related finance costs 26 26 At 31 December 1 Where a surplus has arisen on a scheme, in accordance with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14, the surplus is recognised as an asset only if it represents an unconditional economic benefit available to the Group in the future.
Any surplus in excess of this benefit is not recognised in the balance sheet.
During 2014, the rules of one scheme were amended, which removed the restriction on recognising the surplus.
2 A minimum funding liability arises where the statutory funding requirements require future contributions in respect of past service that will result in a future unrecognisable surplus.
FUTURE CONTRIBUTIONS The Group expects to contribute approximately 260m to its defined benefit schemes in 2016.
In the UK, the funding is set on the basis of a triennial funding valuation by the actuaries for which the assumptions may differ from those above.
In particular, the discount rate used to value the obligations takes account of the investment strategy, rather than being based on market yields of AA corporate bonds.
As a result of these valuations, the Group and the scheme trustees agree a Schedule of Contributions SoC, which sets out the required contributions from the employer and employees for current service.
Where the scheme is in deficit, the SoC also includes required contributions from the employer to eliminate the deficit.
The most recent agreed triennial valuations for the principal schemes are: Obligations at 31 December 2015 m Valuation date Rolls-Royce Pension Fund 7,871 31 March 2015 Rolls-Royce Group Pension Scheme 1,913 5 April 2013 Vickers Group Pension Scheme 702 31 March 2013 152 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 19 Post-retirement benefits continued Sensitivities The calculations of the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the assumptions set out above.
The following table summarises how the estimated impact of a change in a significant assumption would affect the UK defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2015, while holding allother assumptions constant.
This sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
For the most significant funded schemes, the investment strategies are designed to hedge the risks from interest rates and inflation on an economic basis and in the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund in the UK, the longevity of pensioners.
Where appropriate, the table also includes the corresponding movement in the value of the plan assets.
m 1 Reduction in the discount rate of 0.25% Obligation 524 Plan assets LDI portfolio 569 1 Increase in inflation of 0.25% Obligation 249 Plan assets LDI portfolio 231 Real increase in salaries of 0.25% Obligations 86 One year increase in life expectancy Obligations 308 1 The difference between the sensitivities on obligations and plan assets arises largely due to differences in the methods used to value the obligations for accounting and economic purposes.
On an economic basis the correlation is approximately 97% for discount rates and 89% for inflation.
20 Share capital Non-equity Equity Ordinary Special Nominal shares Nominal Share value of 20p each value of 1 m Millions m Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2014 1 1,880 376 Proceeds from shares issued for share option schemes 10 2 Purchase and cancellation of ordinary shares 8 2 At 31 December 2014 1 1,882 376 Purchase and cancellation of ordinary shares 44 9 At 31 December 2015 1 1,838 367 The rights attaching to each class of share are set out on page 178.
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Companys non-cumulative redeemable preference shares C Shares are classified as financial liabilities.
Accordingly, movements in C Shares are included in note 17.
21 Share-based payments EFFECT OF SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS ON THE GROUPS RESULTS AND FINANCIAL POSITION 2015 2014 m m Total expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payments transactions 6 26 Total credit recognised for cash-settled share-based payments transactions 1 5 Share-based payments recognised in the consolidated income statement 5 21 Liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 13 A description of the share-based payment plans is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 89.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 153 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 Share-based payments continued MOVEMENTS IN THE GROUPS SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS DURING THE YEAR ShareSave PSP APRA Weighted average Number exercise price Number Number Millions Pence Millions Millions Outstanding at 1 January 2014 26.0 660 12.0 3.1 Granted 2.9 1.1 Additional entitlements arising from TSR performance 0.5 Additional shares accrued from reinvestment of C Shares 0.1 Forfeited 1.0 775 1.2 0.2 Exercised 0.5 487 4.4 1.7 Outstanding at 1 January 2015 24.5 660 9.8 2.4 Granted 13.0 617 3.0 Additional entitlements arising from TSR performance 0.5 Forfeited 4.6 908 2.9 0.1 Exercised 9.7 445 1.7 1.4 Outstanding 31 December 2015 23.2 677 8.7 0.9 Exercisable at 31 December 2015 Exercisable at 31 December 2014 As share options are exercised throughout the year, the weighted average share price during the year of 820p 2014: 1013p is representative of the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
The closing price at 31 December 2015 was 575p 2014: 870p.
FAIR VALUES OF SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS The weighted average fair value per share of equity-settled share-based payment plans granted during the year, estimated at the date ofgrant, are as follows: 2015 2014 PSP 25% TSR uplift 1,015p 1,105p PSP 50% TSR uplift 1,036p 1,227p ShareSave 3 year grant 192p n a ShareSave 5 year grant 219p n a APRA n a 984p PSP The fair value of shares awarded under the PSP is calculated using a pricing model that takes account of the non-entitlement to dividends orequivalent during the vesting period and the market-based performance condition based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the group of FTSE 100 companies and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price performance and TSR vesting.
This adjustment increases the fair value of the award relative to the share price at the date of grant.
ShareSave The fair value of the options granted under the ShareSave plan is calculated using a binomial pricing model that assumes that participants will exercise their options at the beginning of the six-month window if the share price is greater than the exercise price.
Otherwise it assumes that options are held until the expiration of their contractual term.
This results in an expected life that falls somewhere between the start and end of the exercise window.
APRA The fair value of shares awarded under APRA is calculated as the share price on the date of the award, excluding expected dividends orequivalent.
22 Leases OPERATING LEASES Leases as lessee 2015 2014 m m Rentals paid hire of plant and machinery 122 123 hire of other assets 124 75 Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Within one year 190 182 Between one and five years 488 542 After five years 496 438 1,174 1,162 154 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements 22 Leases continued Leases as lessor 2015 2014 m m Rentals received credited within revenue from aftermarket services 3 15 Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are receivable as follows: Within one year 12 16 Between one and five years 12 30 After five years 8 13 32 59 The Group acts as lessee and lessor for both land and buildings and gas turbine engines, and acts as lessee for some plant and equipment.
Sublease payments of 1m 2014: 1m and sublease receipts of 3m 2014: 12m were recognised in the income statement in the year.
Purchase options exist on aero engines, land and buildings and plant and equipment with the period to the purchase option date varying between one to eight years.
Renewal options exist on aero engines, land and buildings and plant and equipment with the period to the renewal option varying between one to 52 years at terms to be negotiated upon renewal.
Escalation clauses exist on some leases and are linked to LIBOR.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be made is 3m 2014: 6m and sublease receipts expected to be received are 24m 2014: 31m.
FINANCE LEASES Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 2015 2014 Payments Interest Principal Payments Interest Principal m m m m m m Within one year 5 2 3 3 2 1 Between one and five years 18 8 10 13 7 6 After five years 46 7 39 47 9 38 69 17 52 63 18 45 23 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities in respect of customer financing commitments are described in note 18.
On 6 December 2012, the Company announced that it had passed information to the Serious Fraud Office SFO, following a request from the SFO for information about allegations of malpractice in overseas markets.
On 23 December 2013, the Company announced that it had been informed by the SFO that it had commenced a formal investigation.
Since the initial announcement, the Company has continued its investigations and is engaging with the SFO and other authorities in the UK, the USA and elsewhere in relation to the matters of concern.
The consequence of these disclosures will be decided by the regulatory authorities.
It is too early to predict the outcomes, but these couldinclude the prosecution of individuals and of the Group.
Accordingly, the potential for fines, penalties or other consequences cannotcurrently be assessed.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not yet possible to identify the timescale in which these issues might beresolved.
Contingent liabilities exist in respect of guarantees provided by the Group in the ordinary course of business for product delivery, performance and reliability.
The Group has, in the normal course of business, entered into arrangements in respect of export finance, performance bonds, countertrade obligations and minor miscellaneous items.
Various Group undertakings are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
As a consequence of the insolvency of an insurer as previously reported, the Group is no longer fully insured against known and potential claims from employees who worked for certain of the Groups UK-based businesses for a period prior to the acquisition of those businesses by the Group.
While the outcome of some of these matters cannot precisely be foreseen, the Directors do not expect any of these arrangements, legal actions or claims, after allowing for provisions already made, to result in significant loss to the Group.
The Groups share of equity accounted entities contingent liabilities is 11m 2014: 11m.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 155 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 Related party transactions 2015 2014 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures and associates 1,896 2,138 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures and associates 2,266 2,544 Operating lease payments to joint ventures and associates 88 81 Guarantees of joint ventures' and associates' borrowings 9 9 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 63 73 RRSA receipts from joint ventures and associates 16 2 Other income received from joint ventures and associates 2 2 Included in sales of goods and services to joint ventures and associates are sales of spare engines amounting to 189m 2014: 138m.
Profitrecognised in the year on such sales amounted to 71m 2014: 54m, including profit on current year sales and recognition of profit deferred on sales in previous years.
The aggregated balances with joint ventures are shown in notes 13 and 16.
Transactions with Group pension schemes are shown in note 19.
In the course of normal operations, related party transactions entered into by the Group have been contracted on an arms-length basis.
Key management personnel are deemed to be the Directors and the members of the ELT as set out on pages 58 to 61.
Remuneration for key management personnel is shown below: 2015 2014 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 8 9 Post-retirement schemes 1 Share-based payments 4 8 14 More detailed information regarding the Directors remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term incentive plans is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 89.
The charge for share-based payments above is based on when the award is charged to the income statement in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments, rather than when the shares vest, which is the basis used in the Directors Remuneration Report.
25 Acquisitions and disposals ACQUISITIONS On 27 March 2015, the Group acquired 100% of R. O. V. Technologies Inc. for US$8m.
The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of 1m and other intangible assets of 2m.
DISPOSALS On 27 November 2015, the Group completed the sale of its Michell Bearings business comprising a business based in the UK, and a 51% shareholding in Michell Bearings India Pvt Ltd, a subsidiary company based in Bangalore for net consideration of 2m.
156 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements Financial Statements COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Investments subsidiary undertakings 2 12,016 12,015 Current assets Trade and other receivables 57 TOTAL ASSETS 12,016 12,072 Liabilities Current liabilities Other financial liabilities 3 29 22 Trade and other payables 842 TOTAL LIABILITIES 871 22 NET ASSETS 11,145 12,050 Equity Called-up share capital 4 367 376 Share premium account 180 179 Merger reserve 7,359 7,789 Capital redemption reserve 1,699 1,267 Other reserve 126 124 Retained earnings 1,414 2,315 TOTAL EQUITY 11,145 12,050 The financial statements on pages 157 to 159 were approved by the Board on 11 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: WARREN EAST Chief Executive DAVID SMITH Chief Financial Officer Companys registered number: 7524813 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2015 Attributable to ordinary shareholders Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Retained Total 1 capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 376 179 7,789 1,267 124 2,315 12,050 Profit for the year Shares issued to share trust 1 1 Cancellation of ordinary shares 9 9 Purchase of ordinary shares 414 414 Issue of C Shares 430 430 Redemption of C Shares 423 423 Share-based payments direct to equity 2 64 62 At 31 December 2015 367 180 7,359 1,699 126 1,414 11,145 1 The Other reserve represents the value of share-based payments in respect of employees of subsidiary undertakings for which payment has not been received Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 157
