130 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS Resolution 1: To Receive and Adopt the Report and Accounts The business of the Annual General Meeting will begin with a resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the reports of the directors and auditor, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2015 is available on the Companys website www.
com and copies will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 2: To Approve the Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders will be requested to approve the Directors remuneration report excluding the Directors remuneration policy for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Shareholders approved the Directors remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting held in 2014.
The remuneration policy remains in force for three years from the date of approval unless a resolution for the approval of a revised policy is proposed to shareholders in the intervening period.
No change in the remuneration policy is proposed for the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
However, the Remuneration Committee has indicated that it will review the remuneration policy in 2016 and any changes proposed to the remuneration policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2016.
The Directors remuneration report is set out in full on pages 49 to 62 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Alternatively, the Directors remuneration report is obtainable on request from the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company, or from the Companys website.
The approval of the Directors remuneration report is an advisory vote and does not affect the directors entitlement to remuneration in the future.
Resolution 3: To Declare a Final Dividend The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.4p 5.0p restated per ordinary share on 16 January 2015.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per ordinary share bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.4p per ordinary share.
If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 7 August 2015.
Resolutions 4 to 9: Re-election of Directors of the Company Resolutions 4 to 9 are concerned with the re-election of directors at this years Annual General Meeting.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director who was a director at the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting at or since either such meeting, shall retire from office.
Retiring directors are eligible for re-election.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Consequently, with the exception of I Haaijer who resigned from the Board on 13 May 2015 and S Rojahn who will retire from the Board at the close of the Annual General Meeting and is not seeking re-election, all of the remaining directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the Annual General Meeting.
The biographical details for each director including their ages, Committee membership and other relevant information can be found on page 40 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Details of the directors service contracts or terms of appointment are described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 53and54 and the performance evaluation procedure is described in the Corporate governance report on pages 47 and 48 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Following individual formal performance evaluation by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director, the Board confirms that the performance of each director submitting themselves for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and recommends them for re-election.
The knowledge and experience and contribution made by each director to the Board is set out below: J R P Pike, Chairman, has made a significant contribution to the Group as a result of his experience in strategic and operational improvement and development in a range of UK and international businesses and through his effective leadership of the Board.
P R M Vervaat, Chief Executive, joined the Board in 2007 with experience in various financial roles in the Netherlands, UK, Germany and Belgium.
He acceded to the role of Chief Executive on 1 May 2013.
He has strong strategic, business improvement and financial skills and has been instrumental in the formulation and the implementation of the Groups Vision 2020 strategy.
L Drummond, independent non-executive director, joined the Board on 16 July 2014 has experience in the pharmaceutical sector and in investment banking which is particularly valuable to the Company as it aims to implement the Vision 2020 focused growth strategy including the development of the Groups pharmaceutical presence.
S J Kesterton, Group Finance Director, who joined the Board on 1 April 2013 makes a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of his financial and commercial skills gained from operating in a competitive international manufacturing environment.
He has extensive experience in leading acquisitions and took a lead role in the negotiations and due diligence for the acquisition of Ace.
M G Towers, Senior Independent Director, is a chartered accountant with extensive financial and managerial experience as finance director of a variety of businesses and has made a considerable contribution to the Company in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
G S Wong, non-executive director, was a director and adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Limited until it was acquired by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
His knowledge of doing business in China and broad international experience is valuable to the Company in developing its presence outside Europe.
He joined the Board on 16 July 2014.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 131 Resolution 10: To appoint  LLP as the Companys Auditor An auditor must be appointed at every Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
Following a tender process which is described in the report on the activities of the Audit Committee set out on page 65 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, KPMG LLP is not seeking reappointment.
 LLP has advised its willingness to stand for appointment as auditor of the Company.
The statement of circumstances required from KPMG LLP under section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 is reproduced in the Appendix.
The Board recommends the appointment of  LLP following recommendation by the Audit Committee which has considered the circumstances of the change of auditor.
Resolution 11: To Authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors Remuneration Shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the directors of the Company to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12: Authority to Allot Shares The directors of the Company may allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last Annual General Meeting is due to expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Resolution 12 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares.
If given, these authorities will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2016 or on 30 September 2016, whichever is the earlier.
Paragraph a of Resolution 12 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,204,457, representing approximately one third 33.33 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 8 June 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Investment Association the IA, paragraph b of Resolution 12 will also allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a of Resolution 12, further ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 8,408,915, representing approximately two thirds 66.67 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 8 June 2015.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary shares to fulfil the Companys obligations under its various employee share option schemes.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the IA.
As at 8 June 2015 the Company holds no treasury shares.
Resolution 13: Notice of General Meetings other than Annual General Meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is at least 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings must be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Previously, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on at least 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 13 seeks the necessary shareholder approval which will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Resolution 14: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The directors of the Company also require additional authority from shareholders to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings.
The power granted at the last Annual General Meeting is due to expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such a power.
Apart from offers or invitations in proportion to the respective number of shares held, the power will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,261,337 being ten per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 8 June 2015, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
If given, this power will expire on 30 September 2016 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2016, whichever is the earlier.
The figure of ten per cent increased from five per cent last year reflects the Pre-Emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for the disapplication of pre-emption rights the Statement of Principles.
The directors will have due regard to the Statement of Principles in relation to any exercise of this power and in particular: 1 as regards the first 5 per cent, the directors will take account of the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any non-preemptive cash issue pursuant to this resolution which exceeds 7.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period: and 2 as regards the second 5 per cent, the directors confirm that they intend to use this power only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning of the Statement of Principles from time to time which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, or which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
132 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS CONTINUED Resolution 15: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares The directors consider that there may be circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Although the directors have no plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
Under Article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association, authority is granted to the Company to purchase its own shares subject to the provision of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 15 proposes that the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company be renewed by special resolution.
The authority will terminate not later than 30 September 2016.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 25,226,746 shares which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 8 June 2015.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in this resolution.
The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they may either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, be retained as treasury shares.
The Companies Act 2006 enable companies to hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 15 as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the IA.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share targets would be adjusted for any reduction in issued share capital.
As at 8 June 2015, the total number of options over shares that were outstanding under all of the Companys share option plans was 5,596,767, which if exercised would represent 2.2 per cent of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to purchase its own shares to the fullest possible extent of its authority from shareholders existing and being sought, this number of outstanding options could potentially represent 2.5 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 133 Appendix KPMG LLP Tel 44 0 121 232 3030 Audit Fax 44 0 121 232 3500 One Snowhill DX 709850 Birmingham 26 Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH United Kingdom Private & confidential The Directors RPC Group Plc Sapphire House Crown Way Rushden Northamptonshire NN10 6FB 10 June 2015 Dear Directors Statement to RPC Group Plc no.
02578443 on ceasing to hold office as auditors pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 The circumstances connected with our ceasing to hold office are the holding of a competitive tender for the audit, in which we were not invited to tender.
We request that any correspondence in relation to this statement be sent to our registered office 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL marked for the attention ofthe Audit Regulation Department.
Yours faithfully KPMG LLP Registered in England No OC301540 Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership anda member firm of the KPMG network 5GL.
For full details of our professional regulation of independent member firms affiliated withKPMG International Cooperative KPMG please refer to Regulatory Information at www.
