Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary XQGHUWDNLQJV 7KH ILQDQFLDO statements of the major subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective businesses.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is no longer held by the Group.
Where the Group ceases to hold control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which the Group held control.
Non-controlling interests represents the portion of profit loss, gains losses and net assets relating to subsidiaries that are not attributable to members of the Company.
The non-controlling interests balance is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those in the Annual Report for the year ended 30 March 2014, except for the adoption of amended revised and new accounting standards with effect from 31 March 2014 as detailed below: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements This new standard identifies the concept of control as the determining factor in deciding which entities should be included within the consolidated financial statements.
This standard replaces all the previous guidance on control and consolidation which was given in IAS 27.
The application of this new standard has no impact on the consolidation decisions made by the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements This standard which supersedes IAS 31 provides a new set of definitions which reduces the types of joint arrangements that can be recognised to two previously three.
The standard also stipulates that equity accounting is mandatory for all participants in joint ventures.
At the reporting date the Group has no joint arrangements and currently therefore, this new standard has no impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities This new standard sets out the disclosure requirements arising from the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 standards.
This standard requires additional disclosures in respect of the Groups associate investment note 25, but has no impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amended 7KH PDLQ LPSDFW RI WKLV QHZ VWDQGDUG LV WR PDNH LW D UHTXLUHPHQW IRU DVVRFLDWHV and joint ventures to be accounted for using the equity method following the issue of IFRS 11.
It is already Group policy to account for such entities using the equity method and so this amendment will have no impact on the Group.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amended This amendment was made to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The DPHQGPHQW PDNHV QR FKDQJHV WR WKH FXUUHQW RIIVHWWLQJ PRGHO DQG therefore has no impact on the Groups financial position.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Amended This amendment relates to the disclosure of information regarding the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based upon fair value less costs of disposal.
This amendment to the standard has no impact on the Groups financial position or related disclosures.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements necessarily requires Management WR PDNH HVWLPDWHV DQG DVVXPSWLRQV WKDW FDQ KDYH D significant impact on the financial statements.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed below.
Pensions The value of defined benefit pension plan liabilities and assessment of pension plan costs are determined by long-term actuarial assumptions.
These assumptions include discount rates which are based on the long-term yield of high-quality corporate bonds, inflation rates and mortality rates.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group exercises its judgement in determining the assumptions to be adopted, after GLVFXVVLRQ ZLWK D TXDOLILHG DFWXDU 'HWDLOV RI WKH NH DFWXDULDO DVVXPSWLRQV XVHG DQG RI WKH VHQVLWLYLW RI WKHVH DVVXPSWLRQs are included within note 8.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014-15 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 131 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred revenue The Group recognises advance customer payments on its balance sheet, relating to stamps and meter credits purchased by customers but not yet used at the balance sheet date note 27.
The valuation of this deferred revenue is based on a number of different estimation and sampling methods using external specialist resource as appropriate.
The majority of this balance is made up of stamps sold to the general public.
For sales to the general public, estimates of stamp volumes held are made on the basis of monthly surveys performed by an independent third party.
In order to avoid over-estimation of the typical number of stamps held, Management applies a cap to the results to exclude what are considered to be abnormal stamp holdings from the estimate.
The level at which holdings are capped is judgemental and is currently set at 99 of each stamp type per household.
The impact of applying alternative capping values on the year end public stamp deferred revenue balance is shown in the table below.
Capped Uncapped As reported At 29 March 2015 30 99 300 Public stamp holdings value m 165 198 223 227 The value of stamps and meter credits held by retail and business customers are more directly estimated through the analysis of sales YROXPHV DQG PRQWKO PHWHU VDPSOLQJ XUWKHU DGMXVWPHQWV DUH DOVR PDGH IRU HDFK W SH RI VDOH WR WDNH LQWR DFFRXQW YROXPH SXUFKasing of stamps when price changes are announced.
The results of the above procedures are reviewed by Management LQ RUGHU WR PDNH D MXGJHPHQW RI WKH FDUU LQJ DPRXQW RI WKH DFFUXDO 7KH total accrual is held within current trade and other payables but a portion which cannot be measured will relate to stamps and meter credits used one year or more after the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Assessment of the deferred tax asset requires an estimation of future profitability.
Such estimation is inherently uncertain LQ D PDUNHW VXEMHFW to various competitive pressures.
Should estimates of future profitability change in future years, the amount of deferred tax recognised will also change accordingly.
Prior to recording deferred tax assets for tax losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
The carrying values of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within note 6.
Provisions Due to the nature of provisions, a significant part of their determination is based upon estimates and or judgements concerning the future.
Of the provisions in place the transformation and industrial diseases claims provisions are considered to be the areas where the application of judgement has the most significant impact.
Transformation provisions, including for redundancy and property costs, are derived based upon the most recent business plan for direct H[SHQGLWXUH ZKHUH SODQV DUH VXIILFLHQWO GHWDLOHG DQG DSSURSULDWH FRPPXQLFDWLRQ WR WKRVH DIIHFWHG KDV EHHQ XQGHUWDNHQ 7KHVH plans include the expected number of employees impacted, expected rate of compensation per employee, expected period of properties remaining vacant and their rental costs as well as expected dilapidation costs.
The industrial diseases claims provision arose as a result of a Court of Appeals judgement in 2010 and relates to individuals who were employed in the General Post Office Telecommunications division prior to October 1981.
The provision requires estimates to be made of the OLNHO YROXPH DQG FRVW RI IXWXUH FODLPV DQG LV EDVHG RQ WKH EHVt information available as at the year end, which incorporates independent expert actuarial advice.
The carrying values of the provisions are included within note 20.
Revenue Revenue reported in the income statement is net of value added tax and comprises turnover which principally relates to the rendering of services as follows: UK Parcels, International & Letters Account revenue is derived from specific contracts and recognised when the delivery of an item is complete.
Contracted services that have not yet been rendered at the balance sheet date are designated as deferred income.
Revenue from direct sales of products or services is recognised when services are rendered, goods are delivered and the amount of revenue that will flow to the Group can be measured reliably.
Where payments are received for a service to be provided over a specified length of time, payments received are recognised as deferred revenue and released to the income statement over the period that the service is performed.
5HYHQXH GHULYHG IURP 1HWZRUN $FFHVV DJUHHPHQWV LV UHFRJQLVHG ZKHQ WKH GHOLYHU RI WKH UHODWHG items is complete.
Where products are sold through third party agents, the revenue receivable is recognised gross with any commission payments being charged to operating costs.
Revenue relating to public, retail and business stamp and meter sales is recognised when the sale is made, adjusted to reflect a value of stamp and meter credits held but not used by the customer.
Further details on this deferred revenue adjustment are provided in the Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements section above.
Royal Mail plc Royal Mail plc 132 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information General Logistics Systems Revenue is derived from specific contracts and is recognised when the delivery of an item is complete.
Distribution and conveyance costs Distribution and conveyance costs relate to non-people costs incurred in transporting and delivering mail.
These include conveyance by rail, road, sea and air, together with costs incurred by international mail carriers and Parcelforce Worldwide delivery operators and GLS.
These costs are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity settled, share-based compensation schemes under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments shares of the Company.
These include the HMRC-approved Employee Free Shares Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
Both schemes are based on non-PDUNHW FRQGLWLRQV DQG GR QRW YHVW until the employee completes a specific period of service.
Share-based payments awarded as part of Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIP vest EDVHG RQ PDUNHW FRQGLWLRQV The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding credit entry in equity, as per the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The total amount expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value of each award is measurHG XVLQJ WKH %ODFN-Scholes model where appropriate.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
At each balance sheet date before vesting the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and Managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of service conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of Shares is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Non-GAAP measures of performance In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not defined under IFRS, the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, under which the Group reports.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures assist with the understanding of the performance of the business.
These non-GAAP measures are not a substitute, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but they have been included as Management considers them to be an important means of comparing performance year-onHDU DQG WKH LQFOXGH NH PHDVXUHV XVHG ZLWKLQ the business for assessing performance.
Transformation costs These costs relate to the ongoing transformation of the business, and include voluntary redundancy, project costs and other  payments.
Reported operating profit before transformation costs This is the operating profit including the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item see below for definition and before WUDQVIRUPDWLRQ FRVWV 7KLV LV D NH SHUIRUPDQFH LQGLFDWRU LQ WKH &RUSRUDWH %DODQFHG 6FRUHFDUG ZKLFK LV XVHG to determine employee incentives.
Reported operating profit after transformation costs This is the operating profit including the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item and after transformation costs.
Operating specific items These are recurring or non-recurring items of income or expense of a particular size and or nature relating to the operations of the business that in Managements opinion require separate identification.
These items are included within reported results but are excluded from adjusted results.
These items include: the recurring pension charge to cash difference resulting from the increasing difference between the Groups income statement pension charge and the actual cash cost of pensions, including deficit payments : and other items that have resulted from events that are non-recurring in nature, even though related income expense can be recognised in subsequent periods.
These items currently include the charge for Employee Free Shares and impairment and legacy costs for example, movements in the industrial diseases provision.
Non-operating specific items These are recurring or non-recurring items of income or expense of a particular size and or nature which do not form part of the Groups trading activity and in Managements opinion require separate identification.
These items include profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and businesses, and the IAS 19 non-cash pension interest credit charge.
Adjusted operating profit before transformation costs This is operating profit excluding the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item and before transformation costs.
Adjusted operating profit margin before transformation costs This is operating profit excluding the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item and before transformation costs, expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014-15 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 133 Significant accounting policies continued Adjusted operating profit after transformation costs This is operating profit excluding the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item and after transformation costs.
Adjusted operating profit margin after transformation costs This is operating profit excluding the pension charge to cash difference operating specific item and after transformation costs, expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share, excluding operating and non-operating specific items.
Free cash flow Free cash flow is based on statutory reported net cash flow before financing activities, adjusted to include finance costs paid and exclude net cash generated from the purchase sale of financial asset investments.
Net debt Net debt is calculated by netting the value of financial liabilities excluding derivatives against cash and other liquid assets.
Underlying change Management focuses on movements in volume, revenue, costs, profits and margins on an underlying basis.
Underlying movements WDNH LQWR DFFRXQW GLIIHUHQFHV LQ ZRUNLQJ GD V LQ 8.3, DQG PRYHPHQWV LQ IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH LQ 6, Q DGGLWLRQ DGMXVWPHQWV DUH PDGe for nonrecurring or distorting items, which by their nature may be unpredictable.
These adjustments are made to the prior year adjusted figures to derive underlying change.
A schedule of the adjustments to the 2013-14 adjusted results to derive underlying change is shown in the Financial review on pages 29-30.
Income tax and deferred tax The charge for current tax is based on the results for the reporting year as adjusted for items that are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for all taxable and deductible temporary differences and unused tax assets and losses except: x Initial recognition of goodwill: x The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss: x Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interest in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and x Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow them to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the tax asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Current and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if they relate to items that are credited or charged directly to equity, otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share EPS from continuing operations is calculated by dividing the profit loss from continuing operations adjusted for non-controlling interests share of profit by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
The Group EPS is calculated in the same way, except that it also includes profit or loss from discontinued operations.
Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares arising from share-based payment schemes.
These potential shares are treated as dilutive only when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease EPS from continuing operations.
Royal Mail plc Royal Mail plc 134 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Segment information The Groups operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided, with HDFK VHJPHQW UHSUHVHQWLQJ D EXVLQHVV XQLW WKDW RIIHUV GLIIHUHQW SURGXFWV DQG VHUYHV ODUJHO GLIIHUHQW PDUNHWV 0DQDJHPHQt monitors the operating results of its main EXVLQHVV XQLWV VHSDUDWHO IRU WKH SXUSRVH RI PDNLQJ GHFLVLRQV DERXW UHVRXUFH DOORFDWLRQ DQG SHUIRUPDQFH assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit before and after transformation costs.
There is no aggregation of operating segments.
The main statutory entities WKDW PDNH XS WKH WKUHH RSHUDWLQJ VHJPHQWV DUH included in note 2.
The operating segments comprise operations in both the UK and other parts of Europe, the latter being relevant to the GLS business unit.
The UK operations comprise the UKPIL business unit plus the Other operating segment.
Segment revenues have been attributed to the respective countries based on the primary location of the service performed.
Transfer prices between segments are set at arms length fair value on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective business units that form part of the segments.
There are no differences in the measurement of the respective segments profit loss and the consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is UHFRJQLVHG DW FRVW LQFOXGLQJ GLUHFWO DWWULEXWDEOH FRVWV LQ EULQJLQJ WKH DVVHW LQWR ZRUNLQJ FRQGLWLRQ IRU LWV intended use.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-OLQH EDVLV E UHIHUHQFH WR QHW ERRN YDOXH DQG WR WKH remaining useful economic lives of assets and their estimated residual values.
The useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
The lives assigned to major categories of property, plant and equipment are: Land and buildings: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease, 50 years or the estimated remaining useful life Plant and machinery 3-15 years Motor vehicles and trailers 2-12 years Fixtures and equipment 2-15 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH LQFRPH VWDWHPHQW ZKHQ DOO VLJQLILFDQW ULVNV DQG UHZDUGV RI RZQHUVKLS DUH WUDQVIHUUHG WR WKH customer.
All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts replaced is derecognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill Business combinations on or after 29 March 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising from business combinations is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of such impairment reviews, goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash generating units.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the goodwill or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included in the cost of those entities and therefore not reported in the balance sheet as goodwill.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets acquired separately or development costs that meet the criteria to be capitalised are initially recognised at cost and are assessed to have either a finite or indefinite useful life.
Those with a finite life are amortised over their useful life and those with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events, or changes in circumstances, indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014-15 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 135 Significant accounting policies continued Amortisation of intangible assets with finite lives is charged annually to the income statement on a straight-line basis as follows: Customer listings 3 to 4 years Master franchise licences 7 to 10 years Software 3 to 10 years Investment in associate The Groups investment in its associate company is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of annual post-tax profits from the associate netted off other operating costs as the values are not material enough for separate disclosure.
Any goodwill arising on acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is included in the carrying amount and not amortised.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Following their classification as held for sale, the assets including those in a disposal group cease being depreciated.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, that has been disposed of, or that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as a single line which comprises the post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation up to the date of disposal, and the post-tax gain or loss recognised on any remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell, or on disposal of the assets or disposal groups constituting discontinued operations.
Impairment reviews Unless otherwise disclosed in these accounting policies, assets and cash generating units are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether such indications exist.
Where appropriate, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
Leases Finance leases, where substantially all the risNV DQG UHZDUGV LQFLGHQWDO WR RZQHUVKLS RI WKH OHDVHG LWHP KDYH SDVVHG WR WKH URXS DUH capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and capital element of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
HDVHV ZKHUH VXEVWDQWLDOO DOO WKH ULVNV DQG UHZDUGV RI RZQHUVKLS RI WKH DVVHW DUH UHWDLQHG E WKH OHVVRU DUH FODVVLILHG DV operating leases and rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
A leasehold land payment is an upfront payment to acquire a long-term leasehold interest in land.
This payment is stated at cost and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
In addition to lease contracts, other significant arrangements or contracts are assessed by reference to IFRIC 4 to determine whether, in substance, they are, or contain, a lease.
This assessment is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoice amount less an allowance for any non-collectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable with the amount of the loss recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
When a bad debt is recognised, it is written off against the allowance for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating costs in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are valued on a weighted average cost basis and carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and other costs attribXWDEOH LQ EULQJLQJ LQYHQWRULHV WR WKHLU SUHVHQW ORFDWLRQ DQG FRQGLWLRQ 7KH SULQFLSDO VWRFN EDODQFH FRQVLVWV RI engineering spare parts.
Royal Mail plc Royal Mail plc 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Trade payables Trade payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally this results in their recognition at their nominal value.
Financial instruments Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are classified as: financial assets at fair value through the income statement held for trading : held to maturity investments: loans and receivables or available for sale financial assets as appropriate.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transactional costs.
The Group only has loans and receivables, financial liabilities measured at cost and derivative asset and liabilities.
The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on their classification as follows: Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinaEOH SD PHQWV WKDW DUH QRW TXRWHG RQ DQ DFWLYH PDUNHW GR QRW TXDOLI DV WUDGLQJ DVVHWV and have not been designated as either fair value through the income statement or available for sale, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, non-derivative financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Cash and cash equivalents &DVK DQG FDVK HTXLYDOHQWV LQ WKH EDODQFH VKHHW FRPSULVH FDVK DW EDQN DQG LQ KDQG DQG short-term deposits cash equivalents with an original maturity date of three moQWKV RU OHVV, Q DGGLWLRQ WKH URXS XVHV PRQH PDUNHW IXQGV DV D UHDGLO DYDLODEOH VRXUFH RI FDVK DQG these funds are also categorised as cash equivalents.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of EDQN RYHUGUDIWV Cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.
Financial assets pension escrow investments Financial assets SHQVLRQ HVFURZ LQYHVWPHQWV FRPSULVH D PRQH PDUNHW IXQG investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail Senior Executive Pension Plan RMSEPP in support of a deficit recovery plan agreed with the Trustee in 2013.
Financial assets other investments Financial assets other investments comprise short-term GHSRVLWV RWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV ZLWK 0 RYHUQPHQW ORFDO JRYHUQPHQW RU EDQNV ZLWK an original maturity of three months or more.
Short-term deposits are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.
Financial liabilities interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
The 500 million bond is measured at amortised cost in Euro and converted to Sterling at the closing spot Sterling Euro exchange rate.
Financial liabilities obligations under finance leases All obligations under finance leases are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes The Group uses GHULYDWLYH LQVWUXPHQWV VXFK DV IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF FRQWUDFWV LQ RUGHU WR PDQDJH WKH ULVN SURILOH RI DQ XQGHUO LQJ ULVN H[SRVXUH of the Group, in line with the Groups treasury management policies.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially stated at fair value.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that LV DWWULEXWDEOH HLWKHU WR D SDUWLFXODU ULVN DVVRFLDWHG ZLWK D UHFRJQLVHG DVVHW RU OLDELOLW, or to a highly probable forecast transaction.
Q UHODWLRQ WR FDVK IORZ KHGJHV WR KHGJH WKH LQWHUHVW UDWH IRUHLJQ H[FKDQJH RU FRPPRGLW SULFH ULVN RI ILUP FRPPLWPHQWV WKDW meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to relate to an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same reporting year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit loss, for example when the hedged transaction actually occurs.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014-15 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 137 Significant accounting policies continued RU GHULYDWLYHV WKDW GR QRW TXDOLI IRU KHGJH DFFRXQWLQJ DQ JDLQV RU ORVVHV DULVLQJ IURP FKDQJHV LQ IDLU YDOXH DUH WDNHQ GLrectly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is NHSW LQ HTXLW XQWLO WKH IRUHFDVW transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the reporting year.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 4XRWHG XQDGMXVWHG PDUNHW SULFHV LQ DFWLYH PDUNHWV IRU LGHQWLFDO DVVHWV RU OLDELOLWLHV.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 -, QSXWV IRU WKH DVVHW RU OLDELOLW WKDW DUH QRW EDVHG RQ REVHUYDEOH PDUNHW GDWD XQREVHUYDEOH LQSXWV The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
:KHUH WKHUH LV QR DFWLYH PDUNHW IDLU YDOXH LV GHWHUPLQHG XVLQJ YDOXDWLRQ WHFKQLTXHV 7KHVH LQFOXGH XVLQJ UHFHQW DUPV OHQJWK PDUNHW WUDQVDFWLRQV UHIHUHQFH WR WKH FXUUHQW PDUNHW YDOXH RI DQRWKHU LQVWUXPHQW ZKich is substantially the same: and discounted cash flow analysis DQG SULFLQJ PRGHOV 6SHFLILFDOO LQ WKH DEVHQFH RI TXRWHG PDUNHW SULFHV GHULYDWLYHV DUH YDOXHG E XVLQJ TXRWHG IRUZDUG SULFes for the underlying commodity currency and discounted using quoted interest rates both as at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Hence derivative assets and liabilities are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as defined within IFRS 13.
The Group determines whether any transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation at the end of each reporting period.
For the purposes of disclosing the fair value of investments held at amortised cost in the balance sheet, in the absence of TXRWHG PDUNHW SULFHV IDLU YDOXHV DUH calculated by discounting the future cash flows of the financial instrument using quoted equivalent interest rates as at close of business on the balance sheet date.
For the 500 million bond, the disclosed fair value is calculated as the closing PDUNHW ERnd price converted to Sterling using the closing spot Sterling Euro exchange rate.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax rate.
Accounting estimates used in calculating the provisions are discussed further in the Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements part of this accounting policies section.
Dividends Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders but not paid at the year end.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The pension assets for the defined benefit schemes are measured at fair value.
Liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Full actuarial valuations are carried out at intervals not normally exceeding three years as determined by the Trustees and, with appropriate updates and accounting adjustments at each balance sheet date, form the basis of the surplus disclosed.
All active members of defined benefit schemes are contracted out of the earnings-related part of the State Second pension scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and any gains and losses arising from settlements, curtailments and past service costs.
The amount resulting from applying the Plans discount rate for liabilities to the pension surplus at the beginning of the reporting year is recognised as net pension interest in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any deferred tax movement associated with the actuarial gains and losses is also recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
For defined contribution schemes, the Groups contributions are charged to operating profit within people costs in the period to which the FRQWULEXWLRQV UHODWH 2YHUVHDV VXEVLGLDULHV PDNH VHSDUDWH DUUDQJHPHQWV IRU WKH SURYLVLRQ RI SHQVLRQV DQG RWKHU SRVW-retirement benefits.
Royal Mail plc Royal Mail plc 138 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of Royal Mail plc is Sterling.
The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries in Europe is mainly the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated at the average rates of exchange for the reporting year, being a reasonable approximation to the actual WUDQVDFWLRQ UDWH 7KH H[FKDQJH UDWH GLIIHUHQFHV DULVLQJ RQ WKH WUDQVODWLRQ VLQFH WKH GDWH RI WUDQVLWLRQ WR, 56 DUH WDNHQ Girectly to the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
Foreign currency exchange differences arising from translation of the 500 million bond designated as a hedge of the net investment in GLS to closing Sterling Euro exchange rates are deferred to the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
These exchange differences would be released from equity to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on the sale if GLS was sold.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currently hedge accounting is not claimed for any monetary assets and liabilities.
All differences are WKHUHIRUH WDNHQ WR WKH LQFRPH VWDWHPHQW H[FHSW IRU GLIIHUHQFHV RQ PRQHWDU DVVHWV DQG OLDELOLWLHV WKDW IRUP SDUW RI WKH URXps net LQYHVWPHQW LQ D IRUHLJQ RSHUDWLRQ 7KHVH DUH WDNHQ GLUHFWO WR HTXLW XQWLO WKH GLVSRVDO RI WKH QHW LQYHVWPHQW RFFXUV DW which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of their historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined.
Accounting standards issued but not yet applied The following new and amended revised accounting standards are relevant to the Group and are in issue but were not effective and in some instances have not yet been adopted by the EU at the balance sheet date: IAS 1 Amended Improving the Effectiveness of Disclosure in Financial Reporting IAS 16 Amended and IAS 38 Amended Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits: Employee contributions IAS 27 Amended Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements IAS 39 Amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Amended and IAS 28 Amended Sale of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 11 Amended Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Annual Improvements 2010-2012, Annual Improvements 2011-2013 and Annual Improvements 2012-2014 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group in future periods.
Not yet endorsed by the EU Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014-15 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2015 139
