Financial statements Notes to the company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies d Investments in subsidiary undertakings a Basis of preparation These comprise investments in shares, capital contributions in respect SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated ofshare awards grants to employees of subsidiaries and loans that the inGreat Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The company directors intend to hold on a continuing basis in the companys business.
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the The investments are stated at cost, together with subsequent capital Companies Act 2006 and with accounting standards applicable in contributions, less provisions for impairment.
e Impairment The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, In accordance with FRS 11, Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill, underthe historical cost convention, as modified by certain financial fixedassets are subject to an impairment review if circumstances or events assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
value through profit and loss.
The principal accounting policies, which Thereview is performed by comparing the carrying value of the fixed asset have been applied consistently throughout the year are set out below.
to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable value and value in use.
The net realisable value is considered to be the amount that During the year certain balance sheet disclosures were reassessed.
could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is As a consequence, certain prior year disclosures have been revised.
determined by discounting, at a market-based discount rate, the expected The derivative financial instrument assets falling due after more than future cash flows resulting from its continued use, including those arising one year have been reclassified on the balance sheet from fixed assets from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written to current assets to be consistent with current year disclosures.
down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit and b Foreign currencies loss account in the period in which it is incurred.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a companys functional and presentational currency.
previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss The South African rand ZAR and British pound GBP exchange rates account in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the tothe US dollar used in preparing the company financial statements asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset will were as follows.
only be up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Weighted average rate Closing rate For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income generating ZAR GBP ZAR GBP units are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that generate Year ended 31 March 2015 11.08 0.62 12.13 0.67 income, and are largely independent of other income streams.
They Year ended 31 March 2014 10.13 0.63 10.53 0.60 alsoinclude those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are one income stream.
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date oratthe related forward contractual rate with the resultant translation f Financial assets and financial liabilities differences being included in operating profit, other than those arising Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value onfinancial liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs.
plus any directly attributable transaction costs except in the case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the company foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at of the transaction.
All other non-monetary items denominated in a foreign each balance sheet date.
currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets are recognised when the company has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity c Tangible fixed assets and depreciation instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another and impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised assets and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or condition for its intended use.
have been transferred and the company has transferred substantially No depreciation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
allrisks and rewards of ownership.
Inrespect of all other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer onastraight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost, less the benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with lifeas follows: another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are Office equipment and software 2-10 years derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled Short leasehold land and buildings Shorter of the lease term or expired.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised or 50 years amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant The company regularly reviews its depreciation rates to take account financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged to ofany changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, theprofit and loss account in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums the principal factors the company takes into account are the expected ordiscounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to orrepayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation beused.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference and taken to net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
between the disposal proceeds and the net book value of the asset.
