Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion Materiality Overall group materiality: US$250 million based In our opinion: on5%of the consolidated profit before tax and SABMiller plcs consolidated financial statements and company before exceptional items.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and Audit scope The group is structured into five geographic fairview of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs segments andone corporate segment.
Each as at 31March 2015 and of the groups profit and cash flows geographic segment is a consolidation of a for the yearthen ended: number of country-based operating businesses.
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared We identified three segments Latin America, inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Africa and Corporate, three country-based IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: operating businesses Poland, Czech Republic and Australia and one joint venture MillerCoors the company financial statements have been properly prepared in which, in our view, required an audit of their accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting complete financial information.
Specific procedures Practice: and were also performed on certain of the groups the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with associates Castel, CR Snow and Anadolu Efes.
therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Areas of focus Recoverability of the carrying value of consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
theAustralian cash generating unit CGU What we have audited Impairment of the carrying value of the SABMiller plcs financial statements comprise: IndianCGU the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 March 2015: Provisions for uncertain tax positions the consolidated income statement and the consolidated The classification of exceptionalitems  income for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then onAuditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
ended: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary risksof material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, ofsignificant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, and in accordance with ISAs UK & Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Ireland, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal identified as audited.
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the thedirectors that represented a risk of material misstatement due preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable tofraud.
lawandIFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an AccountingPractice.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
