Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow statement as follows 2015 2014 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 965 2,081 Overdrafts 215 213 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow statement 750 1,868 Net debt is analysed as follows.
Major non-cash transactions Major non-cash transactions included the following.
Additional profit realised in 2014 and 2015 on the disposal of the groups Angolan operations in Africa in 2012.
In 2015 impairment charges relating to the groups business in India in Asia Pacific and the groups share of the impairment charges taken by Anadolu Efes in relation to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine.
Additionally, impairment charges in Australia including those in 2015 relating to the pending closure of the Campbelltown cidery and Port Melbourne brewery, and in 2014 the closure of the Warnervale brewery and the cessation of the Bluetongue brand.
In 2015 the recycling of foreign currency translation reserves following the repayment of an intercompany loan.
During 2014 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE related charges in South Africa, including share based payment charges in relation to the employee component of the BBBEE scheme, together with the loss on the dilution of the groups investment in its associate Distell Group Ltd as a result of the exercise of share options issued as part of its BBBEE scheme.
Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions In July 2014 the group acquired the trade and assets of a business in Mayotte in Africa for consideration of US$3 million.
The business combination has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests in Bavaria SA in Colombia in Latin America were acquired for a cash consideration of US$3 million, reducing equity by US$3 million.
There was no change in the groups effective interest in Bavaria SA.
Disposals The group completed the sale of its investment in Tsogo Sun, its hotels and gaming associate listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, in August 2014 through an institutional placing and share buyback.
The group received net proceeds of US$971million, and realised a post-tax profit of US$239 million.
In January 2015 the group received net proceeds of US$7 million and realised a net profit of US$2 million, after associated costs, on the disposal ofits packaging associate in Panama, Latin America.
