Financial statements Notes to the company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies d Investments in subsidiary undertakings a Basis of preparation These comprise investments in shares, capital contributions in respect SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated ofshare awards grants to employees of subsidiaries and loans that the inGreat Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The company directors intend to hold on a continuing basis in the companys business.
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the The investments are stated at cost, together with subsequent capital Companies Act 2006 and with accounting standards applicable in contributions, less provisions for impairment.
e Impairment The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, In accordance with FRS 11, Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill, underthe historical cost convention, as modified by certain financial fixedassets are subject to an impairment review if circumstances or events assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
value through profit and loss.
The principal accounting policies, which Thereview is performed by comparing the carrying value of the fixed asset have been applied consistently throughout the year are set out below.
to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable value and value in use.
The net realisable value is considered to be the amount that During the year certain balance sheet disclosures were reassessed.
could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is As a consequence, certain prior year disclosures have been revised.
determined by discounting, at a market-based discount rate, the expected The derivative financial instrument assets falling due after more than future cash flows resulting from its continued use, including those arising one year have been reclassified on the balance sheet from fixed assets from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written to current assets to be consistent with current year disclosures.
down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit and b Foreign currencies loss account in the period in which it is incurred.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a companys functional and presentational currency.
previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss The South African rand ZAR and British pound GBP exchange rates account in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the tothe US dollar used in preparing the company financial statements asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset will were as follows.
only be up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Weighted average rate Closing rate For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income generating ZAR GBP ZAR GBP units are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that generate Year ended 31 March 2015 11.08 0.62 12.13 0.67 income, and are largely independent of other income streams.
They Year ended 31 March 2014 10.13 0.63 10.53 0.60 alsoinclude those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are one income stream.
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date oratthe related forward contractual rate with the resultant translation f Financial assets and financial liabilities differences being included in operating profit, other than those arising Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value onfinancial liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs.
plus any directly attributable transaction costs except in the case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the company foreign currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at of the transaction.
All other non-monetary items denominated in a foreign each balance sheet date.
currency are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets are recognised when the company has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity c Tangible fixed assets and depreciation instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another and impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised assets and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or condition for its intended use.
have been transferred and the company has transferred substantially No depreciation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
allrisks and rewards of ownership.
Inrespect of all other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer onastraight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost, less the benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with lifeas follows: another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are Office equipment and software 2-10 years derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled Short leasehold land and buildings Shorter of the lease term or expired.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised or 50 years amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant The company regularly reviews its depreciation rates to take account financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged to ofany changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, theprofit and loss account in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums the principal factors the company takes into account are the expected ordiscounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to orrepayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation beused.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference and taken to net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
between the disposal proceeds and the net book value of the asset.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 177 Financial statements Notes to the company financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued g Revenue recognition i Loans and receivables i Interest income Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
arise when the company provides money, goods or services directly to a ii Dividend income debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and receivables Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment are included in debtors in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at cost including originating h Deferred taxation fees and transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions Loans and receivables include loans and amounts owed by subsidiary or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or undertakings, amounts owed by associated undertakings and aright to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance other debtors.
ii Cash at bank and in hand A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore Cash at bank and in hand includes cash in hand, bank deposits recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be repayable on demand, other short-term highly liquid investments with regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which within creditors amounts falling due within one year.
the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
iii Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments inthe periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require little based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current non-discounted basis.
assets and creditors on the face of the balance sheet, depending on i Dividend distributions when they are expected to mature.
For derivatives that have not been In accordance with FRS 21, Events after the balance sheet date, designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are dividend distributions to equity holders are recognised as a liability in the recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
See note k financial statements of the company in the period in which the dividends for thecompanys accounting policy on hedge accounting.
are approved by the companys shareholders.
Dividends declared after iv Trade creditors the balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present Trade creditors are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently obligation at the balance sheet date.
Interim dividends are recognised measured at amortised cost.
Trade creditors are classified as creditors falling due within one year j Share-based compensation unless the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement for The company operates several equity-settled share-based atleast 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These include share option and stock appreciation rights plans with and without market performance v Borrowings conditions attached, performance share award plans with and without Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs market performance conditions attached and awards related to the and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued employee element of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as current BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
In addition the company has granted liabilities unless the company has an unconditional right to defer an equity-settled share-based payment to retailers in relation to the settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet retailer component of the BBBEE scheme.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge accounting requirements see note k. In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based payments, an expense is recognised to spread the fair value at date of grant of each award over vi Financial guarantees the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate FRS 26, Financial instruments recognition and measurement, requires of the share awards that will eventually vest.
A corresponding adjustment that issued financial guarantees, other than those previously asserted by is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The estimate of the entity to be insurance contracts, are to be initially recognised at their the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of the amount initially cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
The charge is based recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised and the amount on the fair value of the award at the date of grant, as calculated by determined in accordance with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent liabilities binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The charge is not reversed if the options or rights have not been Financial guarantee contracts are defined in FRS 26 as contracts that exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder option price at the date of grant.
The proceeds received net of any for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised, debtinstrument.
unless the options are satisfied by the transfer of treasury or the Financial guarantees are amortised over the life of the guarantee, or Employees Benefit Trust EBT shares.
accelerated if the third party obligation is settled early.
The amortisation is taken to the profit and loss account.
178 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued i Fair value hedges The issue by the company to employees of its subsidiaries of a grant Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated over the companys shares represents additional capital contributions ina hedging relationship to manage the companys interest rate risk to bythe company to its subsidiaries, except to the extent the company which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued allocated theprofit and loss account in the period incurred.
Gains or losses on fair overthe underlying grants vesting period.
value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the profit and loss account together with the gain or loss on the hedged The company has an employee benefit trust, the SABMiller Associated itemattributable to the hedged risk.
Companies Employees Benefit Trust AC-EBT.
The AC-EBT may hold shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of providing share incentives ii Cash flow hedges for employees of companies in which SABMiller has a significant Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated economic and strategic interest but over which it does not have in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest rate risk management control.
towhich the cash flows of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Theeffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that Shares held by EBTs and in treasury are treated as a deduction from isdesignated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised as a capital and reserves until the shares are utilised.
The ineffective portion is recognised k Hedge accounting immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in The derivative instruments used by the company, which are used solely equity are recycled to the profit and loss account in the period in which for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to fairvalue movements previously deferred in capital and reserves are alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the company included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
in line with the companys risk management policies.
Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative are provided in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements of contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair thegroup.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on l Operating leases whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss the nature of the hedging relationship.
account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the company is required to m Pension obligations document the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging The company operates a defined contribution scheme.
The company is also required to document and demonstrate tothis scheme are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
that the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
The company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitments cash flow hedge.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and amounts previously recorded in equity are recycled to the profit and loss account.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic hedges under the companys policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
