Financial statements Definitions Financial definitions Group net producer revenue NPR This comprises group revenue less excise duties and other similar Adjusted earnings taxes, together with the groups share of excise duties and other Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings similar taxes from associates and joint ventures.
asdefined below for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, exceptional integration and restructuring costs, Headline earnings andother items which have been treated as exceptional but not included Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the financial above or as headline earnings adjustments together with the groups period attributable to owners of the parent for items in accordance with share of associates and joint ventures adjustments for similar items.
the South African Circular 2 2013 entitled Headline Earnings.
Such Thetax and non-controlling interests in respect of these items are items include exceptional impairments of non-current assets and profits alsoadjusted.
or losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related tax and non-controlling interests.
This also includes the groups share of Adjusted EBITDA associates and joint ventures adjustments on a similar basis.
This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation, and includes the groups share of MillerCoors Interest cover operating profit on a similar basis.
This is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
Adjusted net finance costs Net debt This comprises net finance costs excluding any exceptional finance This comprises gross debt including borrowings, financing derivative charges or income.
financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
Adjusted profit before tax This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the Organic information groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and on asimilar basis.
volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and volumes relating to disposals.
Constant currency Constant currency results have been determined by translating the Total shareholder return TSR localcurrency denominated results for the year ended 31 March TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for at theexchange rates for the prior year.
its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, and Sales volumes amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and profit on a similar basis.
itsequity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes although EBITA margin % revenue from contract brewing is included within group revenue.
This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group net Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure of volumes producer revenue.
is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other alcoholic beverage EBITDA volumes and beverage volumes and is used in the segmental analyses This comprises EBITA as defined above plus depreciation and as it more closely aligns with the consolidated group net producer amortisation of computer software, including the groups share of revenue and EBITA disclosures.
associates and joint ventures depreciation and amortisation of computer software.
KPI definitions how we measure EBITDA margin % Total shareholder return TSR in excess of the median This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of group net of peer group over five-year periods producer revenue.
TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in ourTSR over the five-year period to the date aligned with the related Effective tax rate % measurement date of value share 2014 and 2013: performance share The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on awards for the excom, and deducting the percentage growth in the exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding TSRof the median of our peer group over the same period.
computer software, including the groups share of associates and joint ventures tax on a similar basis, as a percentage of adjusted Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS profit beforetax.
Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted EPS for the year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is measured using Free cash flow adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less cash Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition above.
paid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, net investments in existing associates and joint ventures in both Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS constant currency cases only where there is no change in the groups effective ownership Growth in adjusted EPS compared with the prior year is measured percentage and dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus cash onaconstant currency basis as defined above.
Adjusted EPS received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible ismeasured using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number assets and dividends received.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition above.
Group revenue This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue Free cash flow from associates and joint ventures.
Free cash flow is measured using the definition above.
188 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which KPI explanation of changes we have no.
2 national market share positions We have moved to TSR measurement associated with the value share Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or awards as the performance share awards with a TSR performance number two national beer market share position divided by total lager measure have all now vested and only value share awards have a volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as defined on page 188.
Proportion of group EBITA from developing economies We have added a new KPI, adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis, EBITA generated in developing economies divided bygroup EBITA to align with the measures used to determine remuneration, as detailed before corporate costs.
Developing in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 96. economies are as defined by the International Monetary Fund IMF.
We have amended our volume KPI to cover total beverage volumes Organic growth in total beverage volumes as we have increased the focus on other beverages, in particular Organic growth in total beverage volumes is measured by comparing soft drinks.
total beverage volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effectsof acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined We have amended our KPI in relation to EBITA margin progression to onpage 188.
Total beverage volumes are measured as defined on measure this on an organic, constant currency basis to better monitor page188.
Group net producer revenue growth organic, constant currency Following the conclusion of our business capability programme in 2014, Growth in group net producer revenue compared with the prior year we are no longer reporting the accumulated benefits of that programme ismeasured on a constant currency basis as defined on page 188 and as a KPI.
Instead we are reporting the cumulative annual financial benefits excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information from our cost and efficiency programme which was initiated in 2014. isdefined on page 188.
Group net producer revenue is defined on As a result we do not have full three-year history for this new KPI.
Non-financial definitions Net producer revenue growth in premium brands constant currency Corporate Governance Code Growth in subsidiary net producer revenue from sales of premium The UK Corporate Governance Code, as adopted by the Financial brands compared with the prior year is measured on a constant Reporting Council.
currency basis as defined on page 188.
Premium brands are those Altria in thepremium segment as defined below.
Altria Group, Inc. our largest shareholder.
EBITA growth organic, constant currency BevCo Ltd EBITA growth compared with the prior year is measured on a constant A holding company for the Santo Domingo Group, our second currency basis as defined on page 188 and excluding the effects of largestshareholder.
acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 188.
Direct economic value generated Revenue plus interest and dividend receipts, royalty income and EBITA margin progression organic, constant currency proceeds of sales of assets in accordance with guidance by the Progression in EBITA margin compared with the prior year is measured GlobalReporting Initiative GRI EC1.
on a constant currency basis as defined on page 188 and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined Economy segment on page 188.
EBITA margin is defined on page 188.
Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which fall below Hectolitres of water used at our breweries per hl anindex of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all brands in of lager produced thissegment will be local brands.
Water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager produced.
Allconsolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis together with Mainstream segment our equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with a weighted Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries per hl average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Mainstream oflager produced brandstends to be local.
Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e in kilograms released to the atmosphere by our brewery PET operations divided by the volume of lager produced.
The total amount of PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which CO2e is the sum of direct emissions produced by the combustion of fuel isused for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
e. g. coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from the use of electricity and PwC steam.
Emissions are calculated using the internationally recognised  LLP, our external auditors.
WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
All consolidated businesses areincluded on a 100% basis together with our equity accounted Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Taking the leading brands in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which have an Cumulative financial benefits from our cost and efficiency index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium segment programme comprises local, regional and global brands.
Cumulative annual cost savings as a result of the roll out of global business services organisation and the expansion of the scope of our STRATE supply chain activities.
South Africas Central Securities Depository, which exists to allow sharetransactions in South Africa to be settled electronically.
