Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on the 1 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the disclosure initiative, is effective from 1 January 2016. groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and beenconsistently applied to all the years presented, unless IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures, on sale or 1 otherwise stated.
contribution of assets, are effective from 1 January 2016.
Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and a Basis of preparation IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures, on investment The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been entities applying the consolidation exemption, are effective from prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 1 1 January 2016. as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, on acquisition of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
1 aninterest in a joint operation, is effective from 1 January 2016.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 38, convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation, are effective 1 assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as from 1 January 2016. described in the accounting policies below.
The financial statements Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 41, 1 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Agriculture, regarding bearer plants, are effective from 1 January 2016.
Amendment to IAS 27, Separate financial statements, is effective The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 1 from1 January 2016. requiresthe use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires 1 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2018. management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts, is effective from groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ from 1 1 January 2016. thoseestimates.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, is effective 1 b Recent accounting developments from 1 January 2017. i New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing Annual improvements to IFRS 2014, are effective from 1 standards adopted by the group 1 January 2016.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
adopted by the group as of 1 April 2014. c Significant judgements and estimates IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, Joint In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting with effect from 1 April 2014, along with the revised versions of IAS 27, estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or Separate financial statements and IAS 28, Investments in Associates netposition of the group, should it later be determined that a different and Joint Ventures.
The adoption of these new standards has had choice be more appropriate.
noimpact on attributable profit, total comprehensive income, or net Management considers the following to be areas of significant assets attributable to owners, but has resulted in an increase in EBITA judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity for the year ended 31 March 2014 of US$7 million, and a similar and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
increase in the groups share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests for the same period of US$7 million.
i Impairment reviews Comparative information has been restated.
The requirements of IFRS Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant 12 have increased certain disclosures in respect of the groups joint cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant arrangements and associates.
These are included in notes 13 and 14.
CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if events indicate Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting financial assets and financial that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based on future cash flows liabilities, has had no material impact on the consolidated results discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant ofoperations or financial position of the group.
country with terminal values calculated applying a long-term growth rate.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and The future cash flows which are based on business forecasts, the measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting long-term growth rates and the discount rates used are dependent on hashad no material impact on the consolidated results of management estimates and judgements.
Future events could cause operationsor financial position of the group.
theassumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position of the ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing group.
Details of the estimates used in the impairment reviews for standards that are not yet effective and have not been early the year are set out in note 10. adopted by the group The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing ii Taxation standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in orafter 1 April 2015 are not expected to have a material impact on the numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex, and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits on defined benefit plans, reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years iseffective from 1 February 2015. toconclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements IFRIC 21, Levies, is effective from 17 June 2014. interpretation of country specific tax laws and the likelihood of Annual improvements to IFRS 2012, are effective from 1 February 2015. settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided Annual improvements to IFRS 2013, are effective from 1 January 2015. which could have a consequent adverse impact on the results and The group has yet to assess the full impact of the following standards net position of the group.
and amendments to existing standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2016 or later periods, which have not been early adopted.
112 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results iii Pension and post-retirement benefits ofthe business are included in the groups results up to the effective Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order to dateof disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the balance calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the income extentthat it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income 19.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are based on and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in assumptions determined by management which include discount rates, preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, and mortality rates.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 30.
The selection ofthe asset transferred.
of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group and future results.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory balance sheetdate of 31 December.
These are consolidated using management iv Property, plant and equipment prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of balance sheet date.
property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values ii Associates to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any changes that Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest could affect prospective depreciation charges and asset carrying values.
andover which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, wheresignificant influence is the ability to influence the financial and v Business combinations operating policies of the entity.
On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the useful The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory balance sheet date life ofintangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired is of30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company performed, which requires the application of management judgement.
isincluded based on financial statements drawn up to the previous Future events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change 31December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent which could have a significant impact on the results and net position period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the of the group.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
vi Exceptional items iii Joint ventures Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period The group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and which have been determined by management as being material by their determined them to be joint ventures.
size or incidence and are presented separately within the results of the Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as exceptional entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic activity items will affect the presentation of profit measures including EBITA that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed andadjusted earnings per share, and requires a degree of judgement.
sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when Detailsrelating to exceptional items reported during the year are set decisions relating to the relevant activities require the unanimous outin note 4. consentof the parties sharing the control.
d Segmental reporting The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of associates Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the andthe way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based date significant influence or joint control commences to the date it ongroup net producer revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating ceases based on present ownership interests.
decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically, and while not meeting the definition of reportable The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures segments, the group reports separately as segments South Africa: post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before taxation in Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional theincome statement and its share of associates and joint ventures information.
Segmental performance is reported after the specific equity movements as one line entries under each of items of other apportionment of attributable head office costs.
comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, anditems of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified Following management changes effective 1 July 2014, the groups Africa toprofit orloss, in the statement of comprehensive income.
and South Africa: Beverages divisions have been consolidated into one division for management purposes.
The results of the new combined When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been Africa division have therefore been presented as a single segment.
reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
inthe associate or joint venture, the group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations e Basis of consolidation to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated jointventure.
Where the investment in an associate or joint venture inGreat Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated is disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary, associate and joint ventures owned by the company.
iv Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions i Subsidiaries with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from non-controlling Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company.
Control is where interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant thecompany has power to vary the returns from its investment, and share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary exposure to the variability of those returns.
Where the companys interest is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling insubsidiaries is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside interests are also recorded in equity where there is no loss of control.
shareholders is reflected in non-controlling interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences until the date control ceases.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 113 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures v Reduction in interests One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas When the group ceases to have control, joint control or significant subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies other influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of exchange with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are translated value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are translated at closing financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously recognised in rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
All translation exchange other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together as if the group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
with differences between income statements translated at average and This may mean that certain amounts previously recognised in other closing rates are recognised as a separate component of equity.
For comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
these purposes net assets include loans between group companies that form part of the net investment, for which settlement is neither planned If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is influence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is disposed of, any related exchange differences in equity are reclassified reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of tothe income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
thecarrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign orloss where appropriate.
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
f Foreign exchange i Foreign exchange translation iv Hyperinflationary economies Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of operations are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment into US dollars, adjustments are made to local currency denominated in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated non-monetary assets, liabilities, income statement and equity accounts financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups to reflect the changes in purchasing power.
South Sudan was considered presentational currency.
The key exchange rates to the US dollar used to be a hyperinflationary economy in the year ended 31March 2014. inpreparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows.
The effect of inflation accounting in South Sudan for theyear ended 31 March 2014 was not material.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March g Business combinations 2015 2014 i Subsidiaries Average rate The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
Australian dollar AUD 1.15 1.07 The identifiable net assets including intangibles are incorporated into the Colombian peso COP 2,097 1,920 financial statements on the basis of their fair value from the effective date Czech koruna CZK 21.56 19.68 of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during Euro 0.78 0.75 the financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.90 2.77 On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting Polish zloty PLN 3.26 3.15 conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable South African rand ZAR 11.08 10.13 assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Turkish lira TRY 2.22 1.98 Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at Closing rate which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, Australian dollar AUD 1.31 1.08 Colombian peso COP 2,576 1,965 or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value, using Czech koruna CZK 25.59 19.90 either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected Euro 0.93 0.73 future cash flows.
Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 3.10 2.81 The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets Polish zloty PLN 3.80 3.03 given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at South African rand ZAR 12.13 10.53 the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate of the Turkish lira TRY 2.60 2.14 fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the business combination is achieved The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the average in stages and results in a change in control, the acquisition date fair of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have been weighted value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is according to the phasing of revenue of the groups businesses.
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
ii Transactions and balances Where the business combination agreement provides for an adjustment The financial statements for each group company have been prepared to the cost that is contingent on future events, the consideration on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of a contingent consideration arrangement.
On an acquisition by acquisition the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are basis, the group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit share of the acquirees net assets.
in the income statement other than those arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified as available for sale assets are included in other comprehensive income.
114 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part ii Associates and joint ventures of a business combination On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures is Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing recorded initially at cost.
Subsequently, the carrying amount is increased arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at a fair value or decreased to recognise the groups share of the associates and representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about joint ventures income and expenses after the date of acquisition.
the expectation that such a contract will be renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed tothe groups share of identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or and contingent liabilities acquired.
The consideration transferred is contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the acquisition, and iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised also includes the groups estimate of the fair value of any deferred aspart of a business combination consideration payable.
The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and The date significant influence or joint control commences is not distributor relationships.
These are recognised as intangible assets and necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream attributable in thecontract.
to these lists or relationships.
iii Goodwill Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the In respect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity iv Computer software interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the groups intangible asset.
shareof identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the incomestatement.
costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally generated Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed for software controlled by the group that will probably generate economic impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is recognised benefits exceeding costs beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
include software development employment costs including those of The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint contractors used, capitalised interest and an appropriate portion of ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the overheads.
Capitalised computer software, licence and development associate or joint venture.
costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
h Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation on Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer astraight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually software programmes are expensed as incurred.
determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset has been v Research and development acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible assets acquired Research and general development expenditure is written off in the as part of a business combination are recognised at their fair value period in which it is incurred.
Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally not recognised except for computer software and applied development generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, costs referred to under computer software and research and separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with development below.
reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the resources to Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is a over their useful lives once the project is complete.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
i Property, plant and equipment Thedirectors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to depreciation and any impairment losses.
which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition on the business.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying i Brands value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it is Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific a long-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title is asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
clear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
In respect of brands currently held i Assets in the course of construction theamortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any thegroup has exclusive rights to those brands, up to a maximum impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets of40years.
certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 115 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, ii Assets held under finance leases restaurants, bars and clubs Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are Thegroup records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period to the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the which the customer commitment is made typically three to five years.
lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease term or their useful These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance included as a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, is included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where asacurrent or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease there are specific marketing activities commitments the amortisation obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of is included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are thelease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired balanceof the obligation for each financial period.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
iii Returnable containers Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, andequipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on plantand equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less similarassets.
k Inventories Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each thecontainers off over the course of their economic life.
This is typically product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, undertaken in a two stage process: asfollows.
the excess over deposit value is written down over a period of one raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost to10 years.
netof discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses to write off the deposit value over the expected container design on a FIFO basis.
period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the inception of a container design.
This period is shortened where Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of inventories theentity to use containers for different brands.
include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
iv Depreciation No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course l Financial assets and financial liabilities ofconstruction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the case of write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial itsexpected useful life as follows.
instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at Freehold buildings 20 50 years eachbalance sheet date.
Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other term or 50 years access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, Returnable containers non-returnable 1 14 years or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another containers are recorded as inventory entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term when the right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or or life of the asset have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks andrewards of ownership.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are expected to be used.
are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary v Capitalisation of borrowing costs amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during assets and liabilities are offset.
the period of development or construction that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance costs over the life of the instrument.
116 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Available for sale investments There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are Theseare described as follows: either designated in this category or not classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
Investments i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through in this category are included in non-current assets unless management profit or loss intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated as costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value and tested for effective hedging instruments.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value including All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial any related foreign exchange movements are recognised in other assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in the comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of available for sale income statement.
investments, any gains or losses in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require little which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such embedded substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract isalready fair valued: if it is not considered as a derivative if it was iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to the Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, host contract.
There are certain currency exemptions which the group accruals, amounts owed to associates, amounts owed to joint ventures has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for certain trade, other payables and borrowings.
potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
Trade payables contract is denominated in the functional currency of either party: Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently wherethat currency is commonly used in international trade of the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade goodtraded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on the economic environment.
face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to settle Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current willbe realised.
and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, b.
Borrowings depending on when they are expected to mature.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued all fair value movements are recognised immediately in the income interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as current statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy on liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement hedge accounting.
of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge accounting ii Loans and receivables requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or in current liabilities and are included within cash and cash equivalents determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They on the face of the cash flow statement as they form an integral part arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a of the groups cash management.
debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the m Impairment balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including originating assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value Loans and receivables include trade receivables, amounts owed by of the non-current asset with its recoverable amount, being the higher of associates, amounts owed by joint ventures trade, accrued income the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
The fair value less and cash and cash equivalents.
costs of disposal is considered to be the amount that could be obtained a.
Trade receivables on disposal of the asset, and therefore is determined from a market Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently participant perspective.
The recoverable amount under both calculations measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the cash generating unit CGU using a post-tax A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when discount rate.
For value in use, this closely approximates applying thereis objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where a potential amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount ofthe provision is the difference between the assets carrying value rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order andthe present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted todetermine the impairment loss to be recorded.
Fair value less costs atthe original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in ofdisposal calculations are prepared on a post-tax basis, and are theincomestatement.
classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Cash and cash equivalents Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents includes from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the recoverable cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other short-term amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the purpose of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also assets that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They also include those includes bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings in current assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable liabilities on the balance sheet.
proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 117 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value An impairment loss is taken first against any specifically impaired assets.
added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is not Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the impairment generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in excise isfirst taken against goodwill balances and if there is a remaining loss are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group cannot it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product received.
Thegroup therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is recovered in Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal the sale price is included in revenue.
of aprevious impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill tobe issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that or depreciation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events these are included within other income.
change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
ii Interest income n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for sale interest method.
are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount to ofdisposal.
its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash flows at Such assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the discount recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, iii Royalty income theasset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with condition and when management is committed to the sale which is the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from date of classification.
iv Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment o Provisions isestablished.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable s Operating leases that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the orcredited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis where lease term.
the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying t Exceptional items amount of the provision increases in each period to reflect the passage Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are material of time and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as exceptional recognised in the income statement within net finance costs.
items within a separate line on the income statement except for those Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and exceptional items that relate to associates, joint ventures, net finance employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future costs and tax.
Associates and joint ventures net finance costs and tax operating losses.
Provisions are recognised for onerous contracts where exceptional items are only referred to in the notes to the consolidated the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
p Share capital Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a asa deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The adjusted earnings per share figure q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding by employee benefit trusts computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Headline earnings shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
per share is calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 2 2013 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
apurchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares fortreasury within net cash from financing activities.
u Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, taxeffects, is included in equity attributable to the companys in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly equity shareholders.
r Revenue recognition Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted i Sale of goods and services foritems that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised when enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred.
118 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued iv Share-based compensation Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based ofalltemporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets compensation plans.
andliabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial The equity-settled plans comprise share option and stock appreciation statements, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill rights plans with and without market performance conditions attached, in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial recognition performance share award plans with and without market performance otherthan a business combination of other assets and liabilities in conditions attached and awards related to the employee element of atransaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an South Africa.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of a liability award over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full on temporary estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
A corresponding differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, associates and adjustment is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
In difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
This includes taxation addition the group has granted an equity-settled share-based payment in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the to retailers in relation to the retailer element of the BBBEE scheme.
extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as A one-off charge has been recognised based on the fair value at the grant receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future date with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The charge will not be periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income adjusted in the future.
tax is also recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date of of overseas associates and joint ventures as the group is not able grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and Monte to determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such Carlo simulations.
additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
The charges are not reversed if the options and awards are not exercised A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore because the market value of the shares is lower than the option price recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is at the date of grant.
expected that sufficient existing taxable temporary differences will reverse in the future or there will be sufficient taxable profit available The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs against which the temporary differences including carried forward are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the v Pension obligations periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the non-discounted basis.
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit v Dividend distributions obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related obligation at the balance sheet date.
w Employee benefits Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and i Wages and salaries changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full and are charged Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the income or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in statement as the employees services are rendered.
ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs The current service cost, the net interest cost, any past service costs The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation pay and the effect of any curtailments and settlements are recognised in when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits are paid.
operating costs in the income statement.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain milestone expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are recognised dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are appropriately as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions discounted to reflect the future payment dates at discount rates are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a determined by reference to local high-quality corporate bonds.
reduction in the future payments is available.
iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans vi Other post-employment obligations The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion assumptions are recognised in full and are charged or credited to equity of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 119 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted vii Termination benefits transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary the initial cost of the asset or liability.
redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to terminating Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly to present value in a similar manner to all long-term employee benefits.
effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative instruments instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes Amounts accumulated in equity are only reclassified to the income i. e. to offset foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate risks, statement upon disposal of the net investment.
comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts and other specific Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instruments as necessary under the approval of the board.
Such instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of an existing matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassified to the income management policies.
The group also has derivatives embedded statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future in other contracts, primarily cross border foreign currency supply transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
When contracts for raw materials.
the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to financial instruments for speculative purposes.
document at inception the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives y Deposits by customers and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in respect of the the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end to ensure that for branded returnable containers are reflected in the balance sheet the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Any estimated liability that may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers is shown in provisions.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value z Earnings per share hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitments Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, net investment hedge.
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares i Fair value hedges held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated the year.
in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to which the fair value of certain assets and Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent, the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement in the during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares period incurred.
held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss during the year.
on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
ii Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest rate risk to which the cash flows of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the 120 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015
