Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on the 1 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the disclosure initiative, is effective from 1 January 2016. groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and beenconsistently applied to all the years presented, unless IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures, on sale or 1 otherwise stated.
contribution of assets, are effective from 1 January 2016.
Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, and a Basis of preparation IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures, on investment The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been entities applying the consolidation exemption, are effective from prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 1 1 January 2016. as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, on acquisition of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
1 aninterest in a joint operation, is effective from 1 January 2016.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 38, convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation, are effective 1 assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as from 1 January 2016. described in the accounting policies below.
The financial statements Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 41, 1 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Agriculture, regarding bearer plants, are effective from 1 January 2016.
Amendment to IAS 27, Separate financial statements, is effective The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 1 from1 January 2016. requiresthe use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires 1 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2018. management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts, is effective from groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ from 1 1 January 2016. thoseestimates.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, is effective 1 b Recent accounting developments from 1 January 2017. i New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing Annual improvements to IFRS 2014, are effective from 1 standards adopted by the group 1 January 2016.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
adopted by the group as of 1 April 2014. c Significant judgements and estimates IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, Joint In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting with effect from 1 April 2014, along with the revised versions of IAS 27, estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or Separate financial statements and IAS 28, Investments in Associates netposition of the group, should it later be determined that a different and Joint Ventures.
The adoption of these new standards has had choice be more appropriate.
noimpact on attributable profit, total comprehensive income, or net Management considers the following to be areas of significant assets attributable to owners, but has resulted in an increase in EBITA judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity for the year ended 31 March 2014 of US$7 million, and a similar and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
increase in the groups share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests for the same period of US$7 million.
i Impairment reviews Comparative information has been restated.
The requirements of IFRS Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant 12 have increased certain disclosures in respect of the groups joint cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant arrangements and associates.
These are included in notes 13 and 14.
CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if events indicate Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting financial assets and financial that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based on future cash flows liabilities, has had no material impact on the consolidated results discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant ofoperations or financial position of the group.
country with terminal values calculated applying a long-term growth rate.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and The future cash flows which are based on business forecasts, the measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting long-term growth rates and the discount rates used are dependent on hashad no material impact on the consolidated results of management estimates and judgements.
Future events could cause operationsor financial position of the group.
theassumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position of the ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing group.
Details of the estimates used in the impairment reviews for standards that are not yet effective and have not been early the year are set out in note 10. adopted by the group The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing ii Taxation standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in orafter 1 April 2015 are not expected to have a material impact on the numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex, and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits on defined benefit plans, reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years iseffective from 1 February 2015. toconclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements IFRIC 21, Levies, is effective from 17 June 2014. interpretation of country specific tax laws and the likelihood of Annual improvements to IFRS 2012, are effective from 1 February 2015. settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided Annual improvements to IFRS 2013, are effective from 1 January 2015. which could have a consequent adverse impact on the results and The group has yet to assess the full impact of the following standards net position of the group.
and amendments to existing standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2016 or later periods, which have not been early adopted.
