Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a component of the financial statements have been incorporated into the relevant note.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of The Sage Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where adopted IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost convention relate to derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to benefit from its activities which is usually from date of acquisition.
Changes in accounting policy As the Group enters the next phase of growth and implement its new strategy, the definitions of revenue categories have been simplified to enable stakeholders to clearly and transparently track performance.
This has led to a change in the application of the revenue recognition policy to certain products.
The most significant change is to separately disclose the revenue from our payments and payroll processing businesses, which is driven by the volume of transactions.
In addition a small amount of revenue from software and software related services SSRS and associated discounts, has been reclassified to recurring revenue, relating to products which are time-limited and require an on-going active maintenance contract to function as designed.
This has had an impact on the phasing of revenue.
Consequently the current year and comparative revenue split shown in the segmental note have been revised, along with the associated impact on deferred revenue, and the description of revenue streams in the revenue recognition accounting policy has been updated.
The impact of reclassifying and rephasing of those products moved from SSRS to recurring revenue was to reduce revenue by 3.1m in current year and increase revenue in 2014 by 1.2m.
The balance sheet impact of this change has been to increase deferred revenue in 2015 by 25.4m 2014: 23.5m, 2013: 26.2m representing the SSRS revenue being deferred with an associated deferred tax asset of 8.2m 2014: 7.5m, 2013: 7.5m.
The foreign exchange retranslation impact of this deferral in 2015 of 1.3m 2014: 1.3m is taken to other reserves.
During the period, management has also considered the accounting for its arrangements with Business Partners who refer customers to the Group, such as Independent Sales Organisations ISOs in the US Payments business, and concluded that payments made to those business partners are better reflected as costs and not as deductions to revenue.
This has had the impact of increasing revenue and costs by 46.3m 2014: 45.5m.
In addition to this change in the application of the revenue recognition policy, two other changes were made to the presentation of items on the balance sheet.
Firstly, the presentation of provisions has been revised to show them as a separate line item on the face of the balance sheet having previously been included within trade and other payables.
The impact of this change within current liabilities in the current year is 9.9m 2014: 13.0m, 2013: 13.3m and between current and non-current liabilities is 10.4m 2014: 8.3m, 2013: 6.3m.
Secondly, the presentation of deferred consideration has been changed to include the balance within trade and other payables having previously been a separate line item on the balance sheet.
The impact of this change in the current year is 1.4m 2014: 3.5m, 2013: 8.2m.
The impact of the change in the application of the revenue recognition policy in the 2014 annual accounts has been disclosed below, along with the impact of the change in the presentation of provisions and deferred consideration.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 58.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements and in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 111 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in equity.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups subsidiaries outside of the UK are translated into sterling using period end exchange rates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Where differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in other comprehensive income and the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions by management.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are described below.
The judgements and managements rationale in relation to these accounting estimates and judgements are assessed and where material in value or in risk, are discussed with the Audit Committee.
Revenue recognition Approximately 30% of the companys revenue is generated from sales to partners rather than to end users.
The key judgement in accounting for the three principal ways in which our business partners are remunerated is determining whether the business partner is a customer of the Group in respect of the initial product sale.
The key criteria in this determination is whether the business partner has paid for and taken on the risks and rewards of ownership of the software product from Sage.
At this point the business partner is able to sell on the licence to the end user at a price of its determination and consequently bears the credit risk of the onward sale.
Where the business partner is a customer of Sage, there are two ways in which they can be remunerated.
Firstly, there are discounts granted as a discount from the list price.
These discounts are negotiated between the company and the business partner prior to the sale and invoices are raised, and revenue booked is based on the discounted price.
Secondly, there are further discounts given to business partners for subsequent renewals or increased sales to the end user.
These discounts are recognised as a deduction from the incremental revenue earned.
Where the business partner is not a customer of Sage and their part in the sale has simply been in the form of a referral, they are remunerated in the form of a commission payment.
These payments are treated as a cost within selling and administrative costs.
An additional area of judgement is the recognition and deferral of revenue on bundled products, for example the sale of a perpetual licence with an annual maintenance and support contract.
When products are bundled together for the purpose of sale, the associated revenue, net of all applicable discounts, is allocated between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
The Group has a systematic basis for allocating relative fair values in these situations, based upon published list prices.
Goodwill impairment There are two key judgement areas in relation to goodwill impairment.
The first is the ongoing appropriateness of the cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the current year CGUs were assessed in the context of the Groups evolving business model, the Sage 2020 initiative and the shift to global product development.
As management continues to monitor goodwill at a country level and product cash flows are still predominantly generated by the existing product base within each country, it was determined that the existing CGUs remain appropriate.
The other key judgement area relates to the assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the CGUs being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business average medium-term revenue growth, long term operating margin and long term growth rate as well as the discount rate to be applied in the calculation.
These key assumptions used in performing the impairment assessment are disclosed in note 6.1.
112 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Tax provisions The Group recognises certain provisions and accruals in respect of tax which involve a degree of estimation and uncertainty where the tax treatment cannot finally be determined until a resolution has been reached by the relevant tax authority.
This approach resulted in providing 32.8m as at 30 September 2015 2014: 26.3m.
The carrying amount is sensitive to the resolution of issues which is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can take many years to resolve and assumptions on the likely outcome have therefore been made by management.
The nature of the assumptions made by management when calculating the carrying amounts relates to the estimated tax which could be payable as a result of decisions by tax authorities in respect of transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
In making the estimates, managements judgement was based on various factors, including: the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries: the results of previous claims: and any changes to the relevant tax environments.
When making this assessment, we utilise our specialist in-house tax knowledge and experience of similar situations elsewhere to confirm these provisions.
These judgements also take into consideration specialist tax advice provided by third party advisors on specific items.
Future accounting standards The directors also considered the impact on the Group of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments.
The following revised and new accounting standard may have a material impact on the Group is currently issued but not yet effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2015: IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact that the application of this standard will have on the Groups financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 113
