Glossary Measure Description Why we use it Underlying Prior period underlying measures are retranslated at the current year exchange Underlying measures allow management rates to neutralise the eect of currency uctuations.
and investors to compare performance without the potentially distorting eects Underlying operating profit excludes: of foreign exchange movements, one-o items or non-operational items.
Recurring items: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets By including part-period contributions from acquisitions, disposals and products Acquisition-related items held for sale in the current and or prior Fair value adjustments on non-debt-related financial instruments periods, the impact of M&A decisions Non-recurring items that management judge are one-o or non-operational on earnings per share growth can be evaluated.
Underlying profit before tax excludes: All the items above Imputed interest Fair value adjustments on debt-related financial instruments.
Underlying profit after tax and earnings per share excludes: All the items above net of tax.
Organic In addition to the adjustments made for underlying measures, organic measures Organic measures allow management and exclude the contribution from acquisitions, disposals and products held for sale investors to understand the like-for-like in the current and prior period.
Underlying cash conversion Underlying cash conversion is underlying cash ow from operating activities Underlying cash conversion informs divided by underlying operating profit.
Underlying cash ow from operating management and investors about the activities is statutory cash ow from operating activities less net capital cash operating cycle of the business expenditure and adjusted for movements on foreign exchange rates and and how eciently operating profit is non-recurring cash items.
Underlying as reported Where prior period underlying measures are included without retranslation at This measure is used to report current period exchange rates, they are labelled as underlying as reported.
comparative gures for external reporting purposes where it would not be appropriate to retranslate.
For instance, on the face of primary financial statements.
Processing revenue Processing revenue is revenue earned from customers for the processing of payments or where Sage colleagues process our customers payroll.
Recurring revenue Recurring revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where risks and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract, with the customer being unable to continue to benefit from the full functionality of the good or service without on-going payments.
Software subscription revenue Subscription revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where the risk and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract.
In the event that the customer stops paying, they lose the legal right to use the software and the Company has the ability to restrict the use of the product or service.
Software and software related services SSRS SSRS revenue is for goods or services where the entire benefit is passed to the customer at the point of delivery.
It comprises revenue for software or upgrades sold on a perpetual license basis and software related services, including hardware sales, professional services and training.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 163 Glossary continued A&RC FaaS Audit and Risk Committee Feature as a Service AAMEA FCF Africa Australia Middle East Asia Free Cash Flow AGM FY14 Annual General Meeting Financial year ending 30 September 2014 API FY15 Application Program Interface Financial year ending 30 September 2015 ASB GAC Annualised Subscriber Base Global Accounting Core CAGR HR Compound Annual Growth Rate Human Resources CFO IFRS Chief Financial Ocer International Financial Reporting Standards CGU ISV Cash Generating Unit Independent Software Vendor CMD KPI Capital Markets Day Key Performance Indicator CR LSE Corporate Responsibility London Stock Exchange CRM LTIP Customer Relationship Management Long Term Incentive Plan DEFRA PBT Department for Environment, Food & Rural Aairs profit Before Tax DTR PSP Disclosure Rules andTransparency Rules Performance Share Plan EBITDA R&D Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation andAmortisation Research and Development EBT S&M Employee benefit Trust Sales and Marketing EPS SSRS Earnings Per Share Software & Software Related Services ERP TSR Enterprise Resource Planning Total Shareholder Return ESOS WLE Executive Share Operating Scheme Womens Leadership Exchange EU WRVS European Union Royal Voluntary Service 164 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
