Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements financial statements 1 Corporate information Saga plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 8804263.
Its registered office is located at Enbrook Park, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
On 29 May 2014, the Company was admitted via a Premium Listing to the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of Saga plc and the entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, collectively Saga Group or the Group for the year ended 31 January 2015 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2015.
Saga Group offers a wide range of products and services to its customer base which include a range of general insurance and financial services products, package and cruise holidays, domiciliary care and a monthly subscription magazine.
Accordingly, the Group segments its business into four trading segments Financial Services, Travel, Healthcare Services and Media and Central Costs see note 3.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except as otherwise stated.
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling m, which is also the Companys functional currency.
On the basis that the Group was created via a corporate reorganisation on 4 March 2014, including the creation of a new parent the Company, the transaction is considered to be outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations and has been accounted for using the pooling of interest method, whereby the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of the combining entities are included at previous IFRS carrying values, adjusted to achieve uniformity of accounting policies.
The results and cash flows of all of the Group entities have been consolidated as if the transactions that gave rise to the formation of the Group took place on 1 February 2011, being the date of transitioning to IFRS for the combining entities.
IFRS requires the Directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
In determining and applying accounting policies, Directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Groups reported financial position, results or cash flows: it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
A discussion on the Groups significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed in note 2.5.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Management has identified accounting estimates and assumptions relating to revenue, taxation, business combinations and goodwill, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, financial assets, insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets, retirement benefit schemes, impairment and share-based payments that it considers to be critical due to their impact on the Groups financial statements.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, unless otherwise stated, are set out in note 2.3 below.
2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 January each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
111 Saga plc Saga plc 111 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.2 Basis of consolidation continued Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights results in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee rights arising from other contractual arrangements the Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are identified and measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to non-controlling interests, even if this results in non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where a subsidiary which constituted a major line of business is disposed of or otherwise meets the requirements of IFRS 5 to be held for sale, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies a.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts receivable from the sale or supply of goods and services provided to customers in the ordinary course of business.
The recognition policies for the Groups various revenue streams by segment are as follows: i Financial Services Insurance operations Insurance premiums received for risks underwritten by the Group are recognised on a straight-line time-apportioned basis over the period of the policy.
Any changes to premium arising as a result of adjustments to the underlying risk notified by the policyholders are recognised over the remaining period of the policy from the effective date of notification.
Revenue received in connection with the sale, renewal, or adjustment of insurance policies not underwritten by the Group is recognised at the commencement of the period of risk.
Insurance premiums received for risks which are not underwritten by the Group are not recognised in the income statement, as these amounts are passed through directly to the relevant insurer.
These amounts are, however, included in the calculation of Trading EBITDA %.
Insurance premiums and sales revenues received in advance of the inception date of a policy are treated as advanced receipts and included as other liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Saga plc Saga plc 112 112 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Insurance operations continued Premiums and sales revenue in respect of insurance policies underwritten by the Group which are live at the reporting date and which relate to the period after the reporting date are treated as unearned and included in insurance contract liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Income from credit provided to customers to facilitate payment of their insurance costs over the life of their policy is treated as part of the revenue from insurance operations and recognised over the period of the policy in proportion to the outstanding premium balance.
Personal Finance operations Revenue from personal finance products is recognised when the customer contracts with the provider of the relevant personal finance product where the revenue comprises a one-off payment by the provider of the product.
Where the personal finance product is one that delivers a recurring income stream, for example ongoing investment, savings or lending products, revenues are recognised over the life of the product.
ii Travel Travel operations Revenue from tour operations and cruise holidays where the Group does not operate the cruise ship is recognised in full on the passengers date of departure which represents the date upon which the revenue becomes fully non-refundable.
Revenue in respect of cruise holidays where the Group operates the cruise ship is recognised on a per diem basis over the duration of the cruise reflecting the often longer durations of cruise holidays, and to facilitate more accurate matching of revenue with costs as they arise.
Revenue from sales in resort, for example for optional excursions, or on board a cruise ship operated by the Group, for example bar sales or optional excursions, is recognised as and when earned.
Revenue from tour operations received in advance of the date of departure, and the unearned element of cruise revenues not yet recognised on a per diem basis, are included as other liabilities in the statement of financial position.
iii Healthcare Services Healthcare operations Revenue from healthcare operations is recognised when services are supplied to customers against orders received.
For Social Care operations, the point of supply is generally defined as the point at which a service user has received care services from the Group and which are usually provided on a daily basis.
For Primary Care operations, revenue is recognised on delivery of the contracted services or, for capacity-related contracts, on a time-elapsed basis as the principal contractual obligation is to provide an agreed level of capacity over a fixed term.
On longerterm contracts, where the timing of the provision of services is not necessarily consistent with the patterns for billing of services rendered, for example contracts with Primary Care Trusts for the operation of walk-in health centres, revenue is recognised over the life of each contract in line with the pattern of delivery of the associated services.
iv Media and Central Costs Magazine subscriptions Magazine subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Revenue generated from advertising within the magazine is recognised when the magazine is provided to the customer.
The element of subscriptions and advertising revenue relating to the period after the reporting date is treated as unearned and included within other liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods.
Saga plc Saga plc 113 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 113 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b.
Cost recognition i Direct costs Costs directly associated with the revenues generated by the Groups principal activities excluding insurance underwriting are recognised in the income statement on a basis consistent with the relevant revenue recognition policy and detailed above.
ii Acquisition costs Acquisition costs arising from the selling or renewing of insurance policies underwritten by the Group are recognised on a straight-line time-apportioned basis over the period of the policy in which the related revenues are earned.
The proportion of acquisition costs relating to premiums treated as unearned at the reporting date are deferred and included as other assets in the statement of financial position.
iii Claims costs Claims costs incurred in respect of insurance policies underwritten by the Group include claims made for losses reported as occurring during the period together with the related handling costs, any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous periods, and a provision for the estimated cost of claims incurred during the period but not reported at the reporting date.
Further detail is provided in note 25. iv Reinsurance costs The Group undertakes a programme of reinsurance in respect of the policies which it underwrites.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related inward insurance premiums and are included as a deduction from earned premium, and therefore as a reduction in revenue.
The amount of any anticipated reinsurance recoveries is treated as a reduction in claims costs.
This amount is reported separately in the statement of financial position.
v Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest paid and payable which is calculated using the effective interest rate method and recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability in the statement of financial position.
vi Other expenses Other expenses are taken to the income statement as incurred and exclude intra-group transactions.
c. Recognition of other income statement items i Investment income Investment income in the form of interest is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective yield of the financial asset or liability are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of the instrument.
Investment income in the form of dividends is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
ii Gains and losses on financial investments Realised and unrealised gains and losses on financial investments are recorded as finance income in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on the sale of investments are calculated as the difference between net sales proceeds and the original or amortised cost and are recorded on the date of sale.
Unrealised gains and losses, arising on financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss which have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or the purchase value for investments acquired during the year, net of the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
d. Taxes i Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Saga plc Saga plc 114 114 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
e. Foreign currencies i Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group at their respective functional currency spot rate at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
The gains or losses arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value are treated in line with the recognition of gains or losses arising on a change in the fair value of the item i. e. the translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income or the income statement are also recognised in other comprehensive income or the income statement respectively.
ii Group companies The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
The exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recycled to the income statement.
f. Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are measured on initial recognition at cost.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition and, following initial recognition, are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding internally developed software, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Goodwill Indefinite Brands 10 years Customer relationship over the life of the customer relationship Contracts acquired over the life of the contract Software 3-6 years Saga plc Saga plc 115 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 115 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued f. Intangible assets continued Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic life on a basis appropriate to the consumption of the asset and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash generating unit CGU level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
g. Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date at fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business, the difference is treated as negative goodwill and is recognised directly in the income statement in the year of acquisition.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs at the point of acquisition and is reviewed annually for impairment.
h. Impairment of non-financial assets The Group undertakes a full impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill at each reporting date.
The Group also assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that any other non-financial assets may be impaired.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculations on detailed budgets, plans and long-term growth assumptions, which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which individual assets are allocated.
Joint arrangements The Group participates in a joint arrangement where control of the arrangement is shared with another party.
A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or joint venture, depending on managements assessment of the legal form and substance of the arrangement.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis, whereas the Groups investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown within single line items in the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated income statement respectively.
Saga plc Saga plc 116 116 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 j.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
Likewise, when a major inspection or dry-docking is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment over its estimated useful lives.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Buildings, properties and related fixtures: Buildings 50 years Related fittings 3-20 years Leasehold properties over the period of the lease Cruise ships 2-15 years Computers 3 years Plant, vehicles and other equipment 3-10 years Costs relating to cruise ship mandatory dry-dockings are capitalised and depreciated over the period up to the next dry-docking where appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.
k. Non-current assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
To be classified as held for sale, an asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, and the sale must be highly probable.
Sale is considered to be highly probable when management is committed to a plan to sell an asset and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan has been initiated at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be completed within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Groups statement of financial position at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount of profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement.
Saga plc Saga plc 117 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 117 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued l. Financial instruments i Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available for sale financial assets.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and they are accounted on a trade date basis.
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
The Group has fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent measurement The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described below: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL are assets: which upon initial recognition are designated at fair value through the income statement to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement recognition inconsistency, or which are acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term or forming part of the portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking.
Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments and hedge funds are classified as FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through the income statement.
The fair values are quoted market prices where there is an active market or are based on valuation techniques where there is no active market or the securities are unlisted.
Valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and other commonly used valuation techniques.
The Group has not designated any financial assets upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method, less impairment losses.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement.
The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Available for sale financial investments Available for sale financial investments include debt securities and money market funds.
After initial measurement, available for sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available for sale reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is reclassified to the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available for sale reserve.
Interest income on available for sale debt securities is calculated using the EIR and is recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or when the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards relating to the asset to a third party.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that debtors are experiencing significant financial difficulty, or where observable data indicates that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or other factors that correlate with defaults.
Loans and receivables If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Saga plc Saga plc 118 118 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Loans and receivables continued Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant, or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Available for sale financial investments When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as available for sale has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement, but those on available for sale debt instruments are reversed if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
Subsequent increases in the fair value of available for sale debt instruments are all recognised in equity.
ii Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments are classified as FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through the income statement.
Loans and borrowings and other payables After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings and other payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Saga plc Saga plc 119 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 119 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued l. Financial instruments continued ii Financial liabilities continued Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
iii Fair values The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives and financial instruments classified as available for sale and at FVTPL, at fair value at each reporting date.
Fair value is the price that would be required to sell an asset or to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market accessible by the Group for the asset or liability or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market accessible by the Group for the asset or liability.
The fair values are quoted market prices where there is an active market or are based on valuation techniques when there is no active market or the instruments are unlisted.
Valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length market transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and other commonly used valuation techniques.
An analysis of the fair values of financial instruments and further details as to how they are measured are provided below.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
iv Hedge accounting The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments as cash flow hedges of certain forecast transactions.
These transactions are highly probable to occur and present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect amounts determined in profit or loss.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the effective part of any fair value gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately within the income statement.
When a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, any associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and reclassified into the income statement in the same period in which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
When a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, any associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and is included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
For foreign currency hedges, prospective hedge effectiveness testing is performed at the inception of the hedging relationship, and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through comparison of the projected fair values of the hedged forecast transaction and the hedging instrument using a combination of the hypothetical derivative approach and sensitivity analysis, as part of the dollar-offset method.
Retrospective hedge testing is also performed at each reporting date using the dollar-offset method, by comparing the cumulative changes in the fair values of the forecast hedged transaction and the hedging instrument.
Saga plc Saga plc 120 120 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 For fuel oil hedges, prospective hedge effectiveness testing is performed at the inception of the hedging relationship, and subsequently at each balance sheet date, using regression analysis.
This method involves calculating the strength of the correlation between the price of the derivative and the price of the fuel oil being purchased.
Retrospective hedge testing is also performed at each reporting date using the same technique.
When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, through maturity, sale, other termination, or the revoking of the designated hedging relationship, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the associated cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
m. Leases Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases.
All other leases are operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments within property, plant and equipment on the statement of financial position and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected useful lives.
The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included in operating income due to its operating nature.
n. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Cash and short-term deposits Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less from their inception date.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, short-term deposits as defined above and short-term highly liquid investments including money market funds with original maturities of three months or less which are subject to insignificant risk of change in value, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
p. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs include all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liabilities include an outstanding claims provision, a provision for unearned premiums and, if required, a provision for premium deficiency.
i Outstanding claims provision The provision for outstanding claims is set on an individual claim basis and is based on the ultimate cost of all claims notified but not settled less amounts already paid by the reporting date, together with a provision for related claims handling costs.
The provision also includes the estimated cost of claims incurred but not reported at the statement of financial position date, which is set using statistical methods.
The outstanding claims provision is not discounted for the time value of money with the exception of claims settled on a periodical payment orders PPOs basis.
The amount of any anticipated reinsurance, salvage or subrogation recoveries is separately identified and reported within trade and other receivables and insurance contract liabilities respectively.
Differences between the provisions at the reporting date and settlements and provisions in the following year known as run off deviations are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Saga plc Saga plc 121 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 121 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued q.
Insurance contract liabilities continued ii Provision for unearned premiums The provision for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
iii Provision for premium deficiency At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks and a liability adequacy test is performed to determine whether there is any overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums.
This calculation uses current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant insurance technical provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premiums less related deferred acquisition costs is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a provision for premium deficiency.
r. Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value on the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the relevant vesting period, ending on the date on which the employee becomes fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of share-based payment transactions are calculated using Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo modelling techniques.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, assessment is made of any vesting conditions to categorise these into market performance conditions, non-market performance conditions and service conditions.
Where the equity-settled transactions have market performance conditions that is, performance which is directly or indirectly linked to the share price, the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and is not changed, regardless of the actual level of vesting achieved, except where the employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date.
For service conditions and non-market performance conditions, the fair value of the award is assessed at the time of grant and is reassessed at each reporting date to reflect updated expectations for the level of vesting.
No expense is recognised for awards that ultimately do not vest.
At each reporting date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and, in the case of non-market conditions, the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of instruments subject to market conditions, the fair value on grant adjusted only for leavers.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in the share-based payments reserve.
Upon vesting of an equity instrument, the cumulative cost in the share-based payments reserve is reclassified to retained earnings in equity.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
s. Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans are determined separately using the projected unit credit valuation method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited charged to other comprehensive income and comprise the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
In particular, the difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit, which include the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements, are recognised in the income statement.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier of the date of plan curtailment and the date that the Group recognises  costs.
The interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged to the income statement.
Saga plc Saga plc 122 122 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The defined benefit schemes are funded, with assets of the schemes held separately from those of the Group, in separate Trustee administered funds.
Scheme assets are measured using market values, and scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Full actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each reporting date.
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately after other net assets and liabilities on the face of the statement of financial position.
The value of a retirement benefit scheme asset is restricted to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme.
For defined contribution schemes, the amounts charged to the income statement are the contributions payable in the year.
t. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
A provision is recognised for onerous contracts in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The unavoidable costs reflect the least net cost of exiting the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
Equity The Group has ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs that are directly attributable to the issue of these shares are recognised in equity, net of tax.
2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective The following is a list of standards and amendments to standards that are in issue but are not effective or adopted as at 31 January 2015.
Comment on these new standards or amendments is as follows: i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that will essentially replace IAS 39.
The classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities will be directly linked to the nature of the instruments contractual cash flows and the business model employed by the holder of the instrument.
The impact of this standard on the Groups financial statements is still being assessed.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. ii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The objective of IFRS 15 is to establish the principles that an entity should apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. iii Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation These amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 provide additional guidance on how the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets should be calculated.
The requirements of IAS 16 and IAS 38 are amended to clarify that depreciation and amortisation methods that are based on revenue are not appropriate.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and will have no effect on the financial statements.
iv Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The amendments reinstate the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial statements.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application being permitted and will have no effect on the financial statements.
Saga plc Saga plc 123 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 123 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective continued v Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The amendments state that the acquirer of an interest in a joint operation in which the activity constitutes a business, as defined in IFRS 3, is required to apply all of the principles on business combinations accounting in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs with the exception of those principles that conflict with the guidance in IFRS 11.
2.5 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: i Valuation of insurance contract liabilities For insurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not yet reported at the reporting date IBNR.
It can take a significant period of time before the ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty.
For some types of policies, IBNR claims form the majority of the liability in the statement of financial position.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by using a range of standard actuarial claims projection techniques, such as Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods.
The main assumption underlying these techniques is that past claims development experience can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such, these methods extrapolate the development of paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers based on the observed development of earlier years and expected loss ratios.
Historical claims development is mainly analysed by accident years, but can also be further analysed by geographical area, as well as by significant business lines and claim types.
Large claims are usually separately addressed, either by being reserved at the face value of loss adjuster estimates or separately projected in order to reflect their future development.
In most cases, no explicit assumptions are made regarding future rates of claims inflation or loss ratios.
Instead, the assumptions used are those implicit in the historical claims development data on which the projections are based.
Additional qualitative judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in future, e. g. to reflect one-off occurrences, changes in external or market factors such as public attitudes to claiming, economic conditions, levels of claims inflation, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy features and claims handling procedures in order to arrive at the estimated ultimate cost of claims that present the likely outcome from the range of possible outcomes, taking account of all of the uncertainties involved.
The ultimate cost of claims is not discounted except for those in respect of periodical payment orders PPOs.
The valuation of these claims involves making assumptions about the rate of inflation and the expected rate of return on assets to determine the discount rate.
Due to the size of PPO claims, the ultimate cost is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
The assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of the adequacy of provisions for unearned premium.
Judgement is also required in determining whether the pattern of insurance service provided by a contract requires amortisation of unearned premium on a basis other than time apportionment.
ii Goodwill impairment testing The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGUs at a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
iii Valuation of retirement benefit scheme obligation The cost of defined benefit pension plans and the present value of the retirement benefit scheme obligation are determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
iv Fair value of financial instruments determined using valuation techniques Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are categorised under Level 2 or 3, they are determined using a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of discounted cash flow models and or mathematical models.
The inputs to these models are derived from observable market data where possible, but where observable market data is not available, judgement is required to establish fair values.
The judgements include considerations of liquidity risk, credit risk, and model inputs such as volatility for longer dated derivatives and discount rates and prepayment rates.
Saga plc Saga plc 124 124 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 vi Share-based payments During the period, the Group has granted a number of different equity-based awards to employees and customers for which a share-based payments charge may be required to be made in the income statement.
The Group has considered each award separately to determine whether it comprises a share-based payment and to determine whether it is equity-settled or cashsettled, and to determine the vesting period and any vesting conditions.
The fair values of share-based payments have been determined using techniques based upon Black-Scholes and MonteCarlo pricing models.
The model assumptions have been considered at the time of award and, in the case of non-market based conditions, will be revisited at each reporting date up to vesting.
viii Share issue costs The Group incurred incremental costs totalling 30.3m in respect of its listing on the London Stock Exchange and issue of new shares.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the Group to charge the costs of issuing new shares against the share premium account within Equity.
The Group has reviewed the incremental costs to identify those solely incurred in issuing new shares, those incurred in connection with the entire share capital, and those not associated with issuing new shares at all.
Those costs incurred in connection with the entire share capital have been apportioned to the issue of new shares by reference to the number of new shares compared to the entire share capital.
Further to this, the Group has charged 27.6m against share premium and charged the remaining 2.7m to the income statement as an exceptional expense.
These costs are not deductible for corporation tax purposes.
ix Disposal group held for sale Further to the Groups decision to divest the local authority section of its Healthcare business, Allied Healthcare, the business has been classified as a disposal group held for sale, and the assets and liabilities of the business have been re-measured to fair value.
In order to be recognised as a disposal group held for sale, IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations requires the business to be available for immediate sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets, and the sale must be highly probable.
The Group has considered the Allied Healthcare business and the processes under way to divest it, in particular those relating to marketing and contact with interested potential buyers, and concluded that the relevant criteria have been met at 31 January 2015.
Accordingly, the business has been treated as a disposal group held for sale in the statement of financial position and as a discontinued activity in the income statement.
Saga plc Saga plc 125 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 125 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 3 Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has four reportable operating segments as follows: Financial Services: The segment primarily comprises general insurance and financial services products.
Revenue is derived primarily from insurance premiums, insurance commissions and financial services product commissions.
This segment is further analysed into three sub-segments: Motor Insurance Home Insurance Other Financial Services The Group operates its own general insurer which underwrites all of the Groups Saga-branded Motor Insurance policies, a proportion of its Home Insurance policies, and some of its other products.
The remaining insurance policies are underwritten by third party underwriters.
Travel: The segment primarily comprises the operation and delivery of package tours and cruise holiday products.
The Group operates its own cruise ships and one hotel.
All other holiday products are packaged together with third party supplied accommodation, flights and other transport arrangements.
Healthcare Services: The segment primarily comprises the delivery of domiciliary care services and delivery of various primary care services.
Media and Central Costs: The segment primarily comprises a monthly subscription magazine product, the Groups internal mailing house and centrally borne administrative costs.
Segment performance is primarily evaluated using the Groups key performance measure of Trading EBITDA.
Items not allocated to a segment relate to transactions that do not form part of the ongoing segment performance.
Group financing including finance costs and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to individual operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results includes transfers between business segments which are then eliminated on consolidation.
Finance income and costs, and fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a Group basis.
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a Group basis.
Cost of sales within the Financial Services segment comprises claims costs and claims handling expenses incurred on insurance policies underwritten by the Group see note 3b.
The costs of marketing, selling and administering the policies are deducted in arriving at Trading EBITDA.
Saga plc Saga plc 127 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 127 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 3 Segmental information continued Financial Services Other Media and Motor Home Financial Healthcare Central Insurance Insurance Services Total Travel Services Costs Adjustments Total 2014 m m m m m m m m m Gross revenue 362.6 197.8 122.5 682.9 379.6 4.7 17.1 1,084.3 Inter-segment 8.9 8.9 Segment revenue 362.6 197.8 122.5 682.9 379.6 4.7 26.0 8.9 1,084.3 Third party premiums 7.4 107.3 25.6 140.3 140.3 Revenue 355.2 90.5 96.9 542.6 379.6 4.7 26.0 8.9 944.0 Cost of sales 218.9 4.4 38.0 261.3 315.0 0.3 16.7 593.3 Gross profit 136.3 86.1 58.9 281.3 64.6 4.4 9.3 8.9 350.7 Results Trading EBITDA 96.7 63.1 37.3 197.1 27.8 2.7 1.4 226.2 Trading EBITDA % 26.7% 31.9% 30.4% 28.9% 7.3% 57.4% 5.4% 20.9% Depreciation 1.3 0.5 0.3 2.1 17.9 0.2 5.5 25.7 Loss on disposal 1.6 1.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.1 1.3 0.7 5.1 2.4 3.1 0.1 10.7 Operating profit 92.3 61.3 36.3 189.9 5.9 2.5 10.0 0.1 188.2 Exceptional expenses 6.4 Net fair value loss on derivative financial instruments 10.4 Net finance costs 0.1 Profit before tax from continuing operations 171.3 Total assets less liabilities 274.9 5.3 0.2 55.5 905.9 1,119.8 The total revenue of 944.0m is generated solely in the UK.
Total assets less liabilities detailed as adjustments relates to the following unallocated items: 2015 2014 Note m m Goodwill 13 1,471.4 1,636.2 Contracts, brands and customer relationships 14 18.8 29.2 Bank loans 28 692.2 Assets relating to discontinued operations 2.4 Net amounts owed to parent undertakings 17 749.2 Net amounts owed to previous related undertakings 17 4.2 Deferred tax non-retirement benefit scheme related 0.7 3.7 798.7 905.9 Saga plc Saga plc 128 128 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 a.
Analysis of Financial Services revenue 2015 2014 m m Income from insurance underwritten by the Group Motor Insurance 270.0 310.9 Home Insurance 16.4 16.4 Other 39.3 41.7 325.7 369.0 Income from other insurance and financial services products 172.4 173.6 498.1 542.6 b.
Analysis of Financial Services cost of sales 2015 2014 m m Net claims incurred on insurance underwritten by the Group Motor Insurance 143.3 194.8 Home Insurance 4.5 4.4 Other 31.5 37.8 179.3 237.0 Other cost of sales 25.3 24.3 204.6 261.3 4 Administrative and selling expenses 2015 2014 Note m m Staff costs 8 86.9 82.3 Marketing and fulfilment costs 44.8 43.9 Lease rentals 0.8 1.0 Auditors remuneration 2.0 1.2 Other administrative costs 38.5 27.7 Depreciation 16 7.4 6.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 11.7 10.7 Exceptional expenses 52.4 6.4 244.5 181.6 a.
Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 Audit of subsidiary financial statements 0.8 0.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 Other assurance services 0.2 Corporate finance services 0.6 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 2.0 1.2 Saga plc Saga plc 129 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 129 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 4 Administrative and selling expenses continued b.
Exceptional expenses 2015 2014 Note m m Share-based payment costs 32 40.8 Flotation and other costs 9.2 Restructuring costs 1.0 5.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 0.3 Other exceptional expenses 1.1 0.8 52.4 6.4 Flotation and other costs comprise the cost of various bonuses paid to Directors and employees of the Group on the IPO date, and the costs of the IPO which have not been charged to the share premium account of 2.7m.
Restructuring costs represents costs associated with restructuring and reorganising a number of Group operations and include staff-related costs such as redundancy and other termination costs, together with various professional fees for advice and processes associated with the restructuring.
5 Investment income 2015 2014 m m Investment income from Financial Services Motor Insurance 15.6 14.1 Home Insurance 0.2 0.2 Other 1.5 1.0 17.3 15.3 Elimination of intra-group property rental income 4.0 3.9 Interest income from other segments 0.6 1.3 13.9 12.7 6 Finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest and charges on debt and borrowings 22.5 Exceptional debt and borrowings costs 12.1 Net fair value loss on derivative financial instruments 10.4 Net finance expense on retirement benefit schemes 0.5 Unwinding of discount and effect of changes in discount rate on provisions 0.2 35.1 10.6 7 Finance income 2015 2014 m m Net fair value gain on derivative financial instruments 2.9 Net finance income on retirement benefit schemes 0.1 2.9 0.1 Saga plc Saga plc 130 130 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 8 Directors and employees 2015 2014 Amounts charged to the income statement for the year are as follows: Note m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 91.2 87.1 Social security costs 7.9 7.5 Pension costs 24 6.6 5.7 105.7 100.3 Discontinued operations Wages and salaries 211.7 254.0 Social security costs 12.9 14.2 Pension costs 24 0.4 0.3 225.0 268.5 Total staff costs 330.7 368.8 Staff costs in respect of continuing operations have been allocated 18.8m 2014: 18.0m to Cost of sales and 86.9m 2014: 82.3m to Administrative and selling expenses.
Average monthly number of employees 2015 2014 Financial Services 2,043 2,113 Travel 2,160 2,423 Healthcare Services 39 37 Media and Central Costs 618 651 Continuing operations 4,860 5,224 Employees attributable to discontinued operations 15,235 16,807 Total staff numbers 20,095 22,031 The number of employees in the Travel segment includes 848 2014: 1,218 crew who are employed indirectly via a manning agency.
Directors remuneration The information required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority is contained on pages 73 to 95 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and comprise the Directors of the Company and the Chief Executive Officers of the major businesses within the trading segments.
The amounts recognised as an expense during the financial year in respect of key management personnel are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Short-term benefits 6.9 4.5 Share-based payments 17.8 24.7 4.5 Saga plc Saga plc 131 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 131 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 9 Tax The major components of the income tax expense are: 2015 2014 m m Consolidated income statement Current income tax Current income tax charge 29.9 48.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.9 29.9 49.0 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 5.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.5 Tax expense in the income statement 27.4 43.4 Reconciliation of tax expense to profit before tax multiplied by the UK corporation tax rate: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 113.8 171.3 Tax at rate of 21.3% 2014: 23.2% 24.2 39.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.5 0.9 Rate change adjustment on temporary differences 0.3 2.9 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Fair value adjustments 0.9 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxed income 3.4 1.0 Tax expense in the income statement 27.4 43.4 Deferred tax: Consolidated statement Consolidated income of financial position statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Excess of depreciation over capital allowances 6.5 8.7 0.3 1.8 Intangible assets 4.6 6.7 0.3 1.8 Retirement benefit scheme liabilities 8.1 4.9 0.2 1.6 Short-term temporary differences 7.3 5.2 2.9 2.9 Losses available for offsetting against future taxable income 0.1 0.8 0.2 0.7 Deferred tax credit 2.5 5.6 Net deferred tax assets 17.4 12.9 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 22.9 19.9 Deferred tax liabilities 5.5 7.0 Net deferred tax assets 17.4 12.9 Saga plc Saga plc 132 132 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Reconciliation of net deferred tax assets: 2015 2014 Note m m At 1 February 12.9 0.7 Tax credit recognised in the income statement 2.5 5.6 Tax credit recognised in other comprehensive income 6.8 3.5 Deferred taxes acquired in business combinations 4.0 Deferred tax charge attributable to discontinued operations 0.5 3.1 Transferred to assets held for sale 35 1.3 At 31 January 17.4 12.9 The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if, and only if, it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% took effect on 1 April 2014, and a further reduction to 20% was enacted in the Finance Act 2013 to take effect from 1 April 2015.
As a result, the closing deferred tax balances have been reflected at 20%.
The Group has tax losses which arose in the UK of 4.9m 2014: 4.6m that are available indefinitely for offsetting against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group, they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time, and there are no other tax planning opportunities or other evidence of recoverability in the near future.
If the Group were able to recognise all unrecognised deferred tax assets, the profit would increase by 1.0m.
10 Dividends With the exception of the corporate restructuring dividends disclosed in note 30, no dividends were declared by the Company during the year ended 31 January 2015 2014: nil.
The Directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 4.1p per share.
This is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 23 June 2015 and would be paid on 30 June 2015.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Saga plc Saga plc 133 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 133 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 11 Earnings per share Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and which would be issued on conversion of all potential dilutive options into ordinary shares.
The Group did not exist in its current form for the comparative period, therefore basic and diluted EPS have been calculated using the number of shares pre-admission to the London Stock Exchange as if they had always been in issue, in accordance with IAS 33.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of authorisation of these financial statements.
The calculation of basic and diluted EPS is as follows: Basic EPS Note 2015 2014 Loss profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent m 134.2 108.5 Profit from continuing operations m 86.4 127.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions Original shares 800.0 800.0 297.3m shares issued on 29 May 2014 202.0 0.5m share options exercised 32 0.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 1,002.4 800.0 Basic EPS 13.4p 13.6p Basic EPS for continuing operations 8.6p 16.0p Diluted EPS Note 2015 2014 Loss profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent m 134.2 108.5 Profit from continuing operations m 86.4 127.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic EPS millions 1,002.4 800.0 Effect of dilution: 12.6m share options 32 8.6 7.0m shares to be issued on 29 May 2015 29 4.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution millions 1,015.7 800.0 Diluted EPS 13.4p 13.6p Diluted EPS for continuing operations 8.5p 16.0p The diluted EPS for the year is not adjusted for the share options and shares to be issued as these are anti-dilutive.
Saga plc Saga plc 134 134 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The Groups key earnings per share measure is Operating EPS.
Operating EPS is presented to exclude items which are not considered to be part of the Group's operating performance.
This is achieved by removing the impact of non-recurring exceptional items, and by measuring prior to net fair value gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedges under IAS 39 as these movements arise and reverse across financial periods and are not representative of the actual effectiveness the Group's economic hedging activities.
The following table provides a reconciliation of Operating earnings after tax from continuing operations and the calculated basic and diluted Operating EPS: 2015 2014 Operating EPS Note m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 113.8 171.3 Adjusted for: Exceptional expenses 4 52.4 6.4 Exceptional debt and borrowings costs 6 12.1 Net fair value gains losses on derivatives 2.9 10.4 Operating earnings before tax from continuing operations 175.4 188.1 Tax at effective rate 36.9 46.5 Operating earnings after tax from continuing operations 138.5 141.6 Post-tax Operating EPS basic 13.8p 17.7p Post-tax Operating EPS diluted 13.6p 17.7p The Group did not exist in its current form during the prior year.
On 25 April 2014, the Group took on its own bank debt to replace that previously provided by the Groups parent company via interest-free intercompany loans see note 28, and on 29 May 2014, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange see note 28.
Accordingly, in order to provide more comparable period-on-period understanding, a Pro forma Operating EPS has also been calculated which adjusts the current and prior year periods to allow like-for-like comparison: 2015 2014 Pro forma Operating EPS m m Post-tax operating earnings from continuing operations 138.5 141.6 Adjusted for: Pro forma interest charge 14.1 61.3 Pro forma plc costs 1.8 4.5 Underlying adjustments 3.4 Tax on adjustments at effective rate of 21.3% 2014: 23.2% 3.4 16.0 Post-tax pro forma operating earnings from continuing operations 126.0 88.4 Post-tax Pro forma Operating EPS basic 12.6p 11.1p Post-tax Pro forma Operating EPS diluted 12.4p 11.1p Pro forma adjustments have been made for interest charges and plc costs to allow comparison between the periods on a like-for-like basis.
The interest charge is made to include a charge for the 1.25bn of debt which was provided to the Company via intercompany loans by an intermediate parent company up until 25 April 2014 see note 28.
Interest has been calculated using the rate specified in the Groups Senior Facilities Agreement for a level of debt of 1.25bn.
On 29 May 2014, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as a consequence, started to incur additional costs associated with being a plc which it did not incur as a private company.
These costs include the costs of additional senior staff, notably the new CEO, Non-Executive Directors and Investor Relations function, together with additional costs associated with the regulatory requirements.
The plc costs charge is made to include a full year of these costs in both periods.
Saga plc Saga plc 135 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 135 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 12 Business combinations and acquisition of non-controlling interests a.
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 January 2015 i Destinology Limited On 13 August 2014, the Group acquired a 75% shareholding in Destinology Limited, one of the UKs leading online travel companies, which offers bespoke holidays at five-star hotels and resorts in major international destinations, including the Maldives, Dubai, the Caribbean, the Far East, the USA and Europe.
Destinology fits well with the Groups existing travel brands and demographic, enhancing our range of travel offers to customers.
The Group has the option to acquire the remaining 25% shareholding in Destinology at a later date.
Accordingly the subsequent purchase is considered to be a linked transaction and Destinology has been consolidated as a 100% subsidiary.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Destinology Limited acquired on the date of acquisition were: Fair value m Assets Brand 12.7 Database of customers 7.4 Software 0.7 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 Trade receivables 4.9 Cash 8.0 Total assets 34.1 Liabilities Trade payables 13.9 Deferred tax liability 4.0 Total liabilities 17.9 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 16.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 13.0 Purchase consideration transferred 29.2 The goodwill arising on acquisition of 13.0m represents the fair value arising from the acquired management structure, strategic knowledge, capability and other synergies arising on acquisition.
Purchase consideration m Cash settled on acquisition date 22.2 Deferred for one year 0.8 Contingent consideration in respect of remaining 25% shareholding 6.2 Total consideration 29.2 The initial acquisition cost for the 75% shareholding of 23.0m was settled using 22.2m of cash held by the Travel segment, with 0.8m deferred to be paid during the year ending 31 January 2016.
The Group and the existing shareholders respectively hold call and put options over the remaining 25% of the shares.
The price to be paid for the remaining 25% is dependent upon the profitability of the Destinology business at certain future dates specifically one year, and two years from the acquisition date.
The contingent consideration of 6.2m in respect of the remaining 25% has been valued based upon a probability-weighted range of outcomes and is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Transaction costs of 0.3m have been expensed and are included as part of the exceptional expenses within administrative and selling expenses see note 4.
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition: m Initial cash consideration 22.2 Net cash acquired 8.0 14.2 Transaction costs of the acquisition included in operating cash flows 0.3 Net cash flow on acquisition 14.5 Saga plc Saga plc 136 136 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 i Destinology Limited continued From the date of acquisition, Destinology Limited contributed 26.2m of revenue and 0.9m to the Group profit before tax for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Had these acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the financial year, contribution to Group revenue and profit before income tax for the full year would have been 56.5m and 1.7m respectively.
ii Nestor Healthcare Group Limited Cash consideration of 0.1m was paid during the year ended 31 January 2015 in relation to Nestor Healthcare Group as part of the deferred consideration on this acquisition.
As at 31 January 2015, 0.2m of the deferred consideration remains outstanding.
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 January 2014 There were no acquisitions in the year ended 31 January 2014.
Cash consideration of 0.7m was paid during the year ended 31 January 2014 in relation to Nestor Healthcare Group as part of the deferred consideration on this acquisition.
As at 31 January 2014, 0.3m of the deferred consideration remained outstanding.
13 Goodwill Goodwill represents that arising via the pooling of interest method detailed in note 2.1, and goodwill acquired through business combinations.
Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs on initial recognition and for subsequent impairment testing, and is allocated to the Financial Services and Travel segments.
Goodwill relating to the discontinued element of the Healthcare Services segment has been transferred to assets held for sale.
Goodwill Note m Cost At 1 February 2013 1,636.3 Fair value adjustment 0.1 At 31 January 2014 1,636.2 Additions through business combinations 12 13.0 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 177.8 At 31 January 2015 1,471.4 Impairment At 1 February 2013 Impairment At 31 January 2014 Impairment Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 At 31 January 2015 Net book value At 31 January 2015 1,471.4 At 31 January 2014 1,636.2 Goodwill deductible for tax purposes amounts to 22.2m 2014: 22.2m.
Saga plc Saga plc 137 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 137 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 14 Intangible fixed assets Customer Contracts Brands Relationships Software Total Note m m m m m Cost At 1 February 2013 81.1 1.4 19.1 50.9 152.5 Additions 8.2 8.2 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 January 2014 81.1 1.4 19.1 58.7 160.3 Additions 8.6 8.6 Acquisitions through business combinations 12.7 7.4 0.7 20.8 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 81.1 19.1 6.7 106.9 At 31 January 2015 14.1 7.4 61.3 82.8 Amortisation and impairment At 1 February 2013 35.5 0.3 18.7 29.5 84.0 Amortisation 13.6 0.2 0.4 11.4 25.6 Impairment 3.7 3.7 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 January 2014 52.8 0.5 19.1 40.5 112.9 Amortisation 9.6 0.8 1.4 10.3 22.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 62.4 19.1 5.5 87.0 At 31 January 2015 1.3 1.4 45.3 48.0 Net book value At 31 January 2015 12.8 6.0 16.0 34.8 At 31 January 2014 28.3 0.9 18.2 47.4 Intangible assets detailed as Contracts, Brands and Customer Relationships at 31 January 2014 represent assets identified at the time of acquisition of various subsidiaries within the Healthcare Services segment.
These intangible assets relating to the Allied Healthcare business to be disposed of have been transferred to assets held for sale as the disposal group has met the criteria set out in IFRS 5 see note 35.
Brands and Customer Relationships assets have been acquired during the year through the business combination relating to Destinology Limited see note 12.
These assets have been reviewed for indicators of impairment at 31 January 2015 see note 15.
The amortisation charge for the year is analysed as follows: 2015 2014 Note m m Administrative and selling expenses 4 11.7 10.7 Discontinued operations: Amortisation charge for the year 35 10.4 14.9 Impairment of intangible fixed assets 35 3.7 22.1 29.3 Saga plc Saga plc 138 138 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 15 Impairment of intangible assets a.
Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to CGUs on initial recognition and subsequently for impairment testing.
Additions to goodwill during the year relating to Destinology Limited have been disclosed as a separate CGU relating to the new subsidiary only.
The carrying value of goodwill by CGU is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Financial Services 1,398.6 1,398.6 Travel 59.8 59.8 Travel Destinology 13.0 Healthcare reclassified as held for sale 177.8 1,471.4 1,636.2 The Group has tested the goodwill in respect of the Financial Services and Travel CGUs including the acquired Destinology business for impairment at 31 January 2015.
The impairment test compares the recoverable amount of the goodwill of each CGU to its carrying value.
The goodwill associated with the Destinology business has been considered separately but as this business becomes more integrated into the overall Travel business, it is likely to be necessary to consider this as part of the overall Travel CGU.
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections from the Groups five year plan through to the year ending 31 January 2020.
Terminal values have been included using 3% as the expected long-term average growth rate of the UK economy, and calculated using the Gordon growth model.
The pre-tax cash flows of each CGU have been discounted considering the weighted average cost of capital of a market participant capable of acquiring a similar business.
For the Financial Services CGU, this pre-tax discount rate has been assessed to be 8.8%, and for the Travel and Destinology CGUs, it has been assessed to be 12.4%.
The value-in-use calculation is most sensitive to the assumptions used for growth and for the discount rate.
Accordingly, stress testing has been performed on these key assumptions as part of the impairment test to determine whether any reasonably foreseeable change in any of the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the CGU to be lower than its carrying amount.
To undertake the stress testing, terminal values were separately recalculated using 1.5% growth and nil growth, and the relevant discount rate was separately increased by 3%.
No evidence of any impairment was seen under any of these stress test scenarios.
Consequently, no impairment of the goodwill relating to the Financial Services and two Travel CGUs has been recognised.
As detailed in note 35, the Group has decided to divest the Allied Healthcare business: accordingly, the goodwill which arose on the acquisition of this business has been reclassified as held for sale and considered as part of the realisable value of this business.
Other intangible assets Separately identifiable intangible assets are valued and their appropriate useful lives established at the time of acquisition.
The carrying values of these assets and their remaining useful lives are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
The Group has performed a review for indicators of impairment at 31 January 2015 and concluded that no indicators of impairment exist at that date.
As at 31 January 2014, the assessed recoverable amount of acquired contracts was lower than the carrying amount, and consequently an impairment of 3.7m was recognised.
Saga plc Saga plc 139 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 139 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment Freehold Land & Long Leasehold Plant & Buildings Land & Buildings Cruise Ships Equipment Total Note m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 February 2013 49.5 7.4 115.1 59.2 231.2 Additions 9.4 5.9 4.7 20.0 Disposals 0.5 40.7 7.9 49.1 At 31 January 2014 58.4 7.4 80.3 56.0 202.1 Additions 5.2 14.2 19.4 Disposals 0.2 6.0 6.2 Acquired with subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 0.4 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 16.6 16.6 At 31 January 2015 58.2 7.6 85.5 47.8 199.1 Depreciation and impairment At 1 February 2013 6.9 1.2 33.3 30.6 72.0 Provided during the year 0.7 0.1 14.8 12.7 28.3 Disposals 30.1 7.9 38.0 At 31 January 2014 7.6 1.3 18.0 35.4 62.3 Provided during the year 1.1 0.2 7.5 11.3 20.1 Disposals 6.0 6.0 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 10.5 10.5 At 31 January 2015 8.7 1.5 25.5 30.2 65.9 Net book value At 31 January 2015 49.5 6.1 60.0 17.6 133.2 At 31 January 2014 50.8 6.1 62.3 20.6 139.8 The net book value of Plant and equipment includes 0.2m 2014: 0.4m in respect of Plant and machinery held under finance lease agreements.
The accumulated depreciation on these assets is 0.3m 2014: 2.9m.
The depreciation charge for the year is analysed as follows: 2015 2014 Note m m Cost of sales 9.9 18.9 Administrative and selling expenses 4 7.4 6.8 17.3 25.7 Discontinued operations 35 2.8 2.6 20.1 28.3 During the year, the Group disposed of assets with a net book value of 0.2m 2014: 11.1m.
The profits and losses arising on disposal were nil 2014: 1.6m loss and are all included within Administrative and selling expenses.
Saga plc Saga plc 140 140 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 17 Financial assets and financial liabilities a.
Financial assets 2015 2014 m m Fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 1.5 Loan funds 19.6 13.0 Hedge funds 33.8 13.1 Equities 8.7 63.6 26.1 Fair value through the hedging reserve Foreign exchange forward contracts 4.1 4.1 Loans and receivables Deposits with financial institutions 479.4 465.8 Amounts owed by parent undertaking 1,030.7 Amounts owed by related undertakings 0.4 479.4 1,496.9 Available for sale investments Debt securities 71.9 51.2 Money market funds 40.6 107.5 112.5 158.7 Total financial assets 659.6 1,681.7 Current 234.4 1,600.6 Non-current 425.2 81.1 659.6 1,681.7 Available for sale investments and deposits with financial institutions relate to monies held by the Groups insurance business and are subject to regulatory restrictions and are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Whilst fixed floating interest securities investments could be realised at short notice, it is anticipated that they will be held until maturity.
Saga plc Saga plc 141 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 141 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 17 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued b.
Financial liabilities 2015 2014 m m Fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.1 7.2 Fuel oil swaps 4.5 0.9 6.6 8.1 Fair value through the hedging reserve Foreign exchange forward contracts 4.6 Fuel oil swaps 2.5 7.1 Loans and borrowings Bank loans 692.2 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase 0.6 Bank overdrafts 5.8 5.2 Amounts owed to parent undertaking 1,779.9 Amounts owed to related undertakings 4.6 698.0 1,790.3 Total financial liabilities 711.7 1,798.4 Current 21.1 1,797.5 Non-current 690.6 0.9 711.7 1,798.4 c. Fair values Financial instruments held at fair value are valued using quoted market prices or other valuation techniques.
Valuation techniques include net present value and discounted cash flow models, and comparison to similar instruments for which market observable prices exist.
Assumptions and market observable inputs used in valuation techniques include foreign currency exchange rates and future oil prices.
The objective of using valuation techniques is to arrive at a fair value determination that reflects the price of the financial instrument at the reporting date which would have been determined by market participants acting at arms length.
Observable prices are those that have been seen either from counterparties or from market pricing sources including Bloomberg.
The use of these depends upon the liquidity of the relevant market.
The fair value and carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities are materially the same.
Financial instruments held at fair value have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: i Level 1 These are valuation techniques that are based entirely on quoted market prices in an actively traded market and are the most reliable.
All money market funds and debt securities are categorised as Level 1 as the fair value is obtained directly from the quoted market price.
ii Level 2 These are valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are taken from observable market data.
These include valuation models used to calculate the present value of expected future cash flows and may be employed either when no active market exists or when there are quoted prices available for similar instruments in active markets.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, interest rate curves and forward rate curves of the underlying instrument.
Saga plc Saga plc 142 142 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 ii Level 2 continued All the derivative financial instruments are categorised as Level 2 as the fair values are obtained from the counterparty, brokers or valued using observable inputs.
Where material, CVA DVA risk adjustment is factored into the fair values of these instruments.
As at 31 January 2015, the marked-to-market values of derivative assets are net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty default risk.
The fair values are periodically reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
iii Level 3 These are valuation techniques for which any one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
The following tables provide the quantitative fair value hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities: At 31 January 2015 Fair value measurement using Significant Quoted prices in Significant unobservable active markets observable inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value Foreign exchange forward contract 5.6 5.6 Loan funds 19.6 19.6 Hedge funds 33.8 33.8 Equities 8.7 8.7 Available for sale financial assets Debt securities 71.9 71.9 Money market funds 40.6 40.6 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Contingent consideration 12 6.2 6.2 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts 6.7 6.7 Fuel oil swaps 7.0 7.0 Assets for which fair values are disclosed Loans and receivables Deposits with financial institutions 479.4 479.4 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Loans and borrowings Bank loans 692.2 692.2 Bank overdrafts 5.8 5.8 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no non-recurring fair value measurements of assets and liabilities during the year.
Saga plc Saga plc 143 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 143 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 17 Financial assets and financial liabilities continued At 31 January 2014 Fair value measurement using Significant Quoted prices in Significant unobservable active markets observable inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value Loan funds 13.0 13.0 Hedge funds 13.1 13.1 Available for sale financial assets Debt securities 51.2 51.2 Money market funds 107.5 107.5 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.2 7.2 Fuel oil swaps 0.9 0.9 Assets for which fair values are disclosed Loans and receivables Deposits with financial institutions 465.8 465.8 Amounts owed by parent undertaking 1,030.7 1,030.7 Amounts owed by related undertakings 0.4 0.4 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Loans and borrowings Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.6 0.6 Bank overdrafts 5.2 5.2 Amounts owed to parent undertaking 1,779.9 1,779.9 Amounts owed to related undertaking 4.6 4.6 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no non-recurring fair value measurements of assets and liabilities during the year ended 31 January 2014. d. Cash flow hedges i Forward currency risk During the year ended 31 January 2015, the Group designated 226 foreign exchange forward currency contracts as hedges of highly probable foreign currency cash expenses in future periods.
These contracts are entered into to minimise the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The table below summarises the foreign currency cash flow hedging instruments in place as at 31 January 2015: Designated in year All current cash flow hedges ended 31 Jan 2015 Fair value Volume m Volume m Foreign currency cash flow hedging instruments Euro EUR 63 4.2 63 4.2 US dollar USD 50 4.0 50 4.0 Other currencies 113 0.3 113 0.3 Total 226 0.5 226 0.5 Hedging instruments for other currencies are in respect of Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian krone, Swedish krona, Thai baht and South African rand.
Saga plc Saga plc 144 144 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The table below summarises the present value of the highly probable forecast foreign currency cash flows that have been designated in a hedging relationship as at 31 January 2015.
These cash flows are expected to become determined in profit or loss in the same period in which the cash flows occur.
EUR USD Other currencies Total Determination period m m m m 1 February 2015 to 31 July 2015 19.2 9.9 3.4 32.5 1 August 2015 to 31 January 2016 25.8 25.9 5.3 57.0 1 February 2016 to 31 July 2016 15.0 13.7 3.2 31.9 1 August 2016 to 31 January 2017 1.9 2.0 1.1 5.0 Total 61.9 51.5 13.0 126.4 During the year, the Group recognised 4.1m of gains and 4.6m of losses on forward currency cash flow hedging instruments through other comprehensive income into the hedging reserve.
The Group recognised a 0.4m loss though the income statement in respect of the ineffective portion of hedges measured during the period.
There has been no fide-designation of hedges during the year ended 31 January 2015 as a result of foreign currency cash flows forecast that are no longer expected to occur, or as a result of failed ineffectiveness testing.
No amounts have been removed from the hedging reserve to be included in either profit or loss or in the carrying value of non-financial assets and liabilities.
ii Commodity price risk The Group uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel oil used by its cruise ships.
The Group enters into fixed price contracts swaps in the management of its fuel oil price exposures.
All fuel oil hedges are designated as cash flow hedges.
These contracts are entered into to reduce the volatility attributable to fluctuations in the price of fuel oil.
Hedging the price volatility of forecast fuel purchases is in accordance with the risk management strategy outlined by the Board of Directors.
The table below summarises the commodity cash flow hedging instruments in place as at 31 January 2015: Designated in year All current cash flow hedges ended 31 Jan 2015 Fair value Volume m Volume m Commodity cash flow hedging instruments 36 2.5 36 2.5 The table below summarises the present value of the highly probable forecast fuel oil purchase cash flows that have been designated in a hedging relationship as at 31 January 2015.
Total Determination period m 1 February 2015 to 31 July 2015 0.8 1 August 2015 to 31 January 2016 1.5 1 February 2016 to 31 July 2016 0.4 1 August 2016 to 31 January 2017 Total 2.7 During the period, the Group recognised 2.5m of losses on commodity cash flow hedging instruments through other comprehensive income into the hedging reserve.
The Group recognised a 10,000 loss though the income statement in respect of the ineffective portion of hedges measured during the period.
There has been no fide-designation of hedges during the year ended 31 January 2015 as a result of commodity cash flows forecast that are no longer expected to occur, or as a result of failed ineffectiveness testing.
Saga plc Saga plc 145 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 145 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 18 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations.
The Groups principal financial assets include debt securities, deposits with financial institutions, money market funds, loan funds and hedge funds.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions such as foreign exchange forward contracts, fuel and gas oil swaps and interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to various risks.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, insurance risk and operational risk.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks, supported by the Group Treasury function and Treasury Committees within the key areas of the Group that advise on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The Treasury Committees ensure that the Groups financial risks are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Groups policies and risk objectives.
All derivative activities are for risk management purposes and are carried out by the Groups Treasury function.
It is the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken.
The Group manages concentration risk through a policy of diversification that is outlined in the Group Treasury Policy and approved by the Board.
The policy defines the exposure limit to third party institutions based on the credit ratings of the individual counterparties, combined with the views of the Board.
On a monthly basis, exposure to each counterparty is calculated and reported, and compliance with the policy is monitored.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is exposed to the following market risk factors: Foreign currency risk Commodity price risk Interest rate risk The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept considering strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group has the ability to monitor market risk exposure on a daily basis and has established limits for each component of market risk.
The Group uses derivatives for hedging its exposure to foreign currency, fuel oil prices and interest rate risks.
The market risk policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.
i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups presentation currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage the majority of its transaction exposures.
The foreign exchange forward contracts are not formally designated as hedging instruments and are entered into for periods consistent with the foreign currency exposure of the underlying transactions, generally from one to 24 months.
The foreign exchange forward contracts vary with the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the fair value of forward exchange contracts to a 5% change in US dollar and Euro exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
The impact is shown net of tax at the current rate.
Sensitivity of Effect on profit - 5% rate change in after tax and equity 2015 EUR - 3.7m USD - 3.7m 2014 EUR - 3.0m USD - 2.5m Saga plc Saga plc 146 146 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 ii Commodity price risk The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities.
Its operating activities require the ongoing purchase of fuel and gas oil to sail its cruise ships and therefore requires a continuous supply of fuel and gas oil.
The volatility in the price of fuel and gas oil has led to the decision to enter into commodity fuel and gas oil swap contracts.
These contracts are expected to reduce the volatility attributable to price fluctuations, and managing the price volatility of forecast oil purchases is in accordance with the risk management strategy outlined by the Board of Directors.
The Group manages the purchase price using forward commodity purchase contracts based on a maximum 24 month forecast of the required fuel oil supply.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the fair value of fuel oil swaps to changes in the US dollar exchange rate with all other variables held constant.
Sensitivity of Effect on profit 000 - 5% rate change in after tax and equity 2015 USD - 0.8m 2014 USD - 0.8m iii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from medium-term and long-term investments in fixed interest securities.
The market value of these investments is affected by the movement in interest rates.
This is managed by a policy of holding all investments to maturity by closely matching asset and liability duration.
It is also ensured that the investment portfolio has a diversified range of investments such that there is a combination of fixed and floating rate securities, as well as other types of investments such as RPI linked securities.
Interest rate risk also arises in respect of the Groups borrowings where the interest rate attaching to those borrowings is not fixed.
Where the Group perceives there to be a significant interest rate risk, it manages its exposure to such risks by purchasing interest rate caps to limit the risk.
At 31 January 2015, interest caps are in place to cover a nominal value of interest payable of 510m, up to June 2016.
The following table shows the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities to changes in the LIBOR rate.
Sensitivity of Effect on profit 000 - 0.25% rate change in after tax and equity 2015 LIBOR - 0.7m 2014 LIBOR - 0.8m b.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to its financial assets, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables.
The Group assesses its counterparty exposure in relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel oil and foreign currency contracts, and undrawn credit facilities.
The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and therefore to define the credit limit for each counterparty in accordance with approved Treasury policies.
The credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is limited as payment from customers is generally required before services are provided, with the exception of the Healthcare Services products.
Credit risk in relation to deposits and derivative counterparties is managed by the Groups Treasury function in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis, and updated throughout the year subject to approval of the Group Board.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through any potential counterparty failure.
The Group is exposed to the risk of default by on the reinsurance arrangements in its insurance business when amounts recoverable under those arrangements become due.
Credit risk in respect of reinsurance arrangements is assessed at the time of entering into a reinsurance contract.
The Group's reinsurance programme is only placed with reinsurers which meet the Group's financial strength criteria, with no single reinsurer holding more than a 20% of the programme.
Saga plc Saga plc 147 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 147 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 18 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued b.
Credit risk continued The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets and trade and other receivables at 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2014 is the carrying amount in the statement of financial position.
The Groups maximum exposure for financial guarantees and financial derivative instruments is noted under liquidity risk.
Ratings analysis 31 January 2015 m AAA AA A Unrated Total Debt securities 71.9 71.9 Money market funds 40.6 40.6 Deposits with financial institutions 30.0 180.3 213.6 55.5 479.4 Derivative assets 5.6 5.6 Loan funds 19.6 19.6 Hedge funds 33.8 33.8 Equities 8.7 8.7 142.5 180.3 219.2 117.6 659.6 Reinsurance assets 33.0 29.5 0.9 63.4 Total 142.5 213.3 248.7 118.5 723.0 31 January 2014 m AAA AA A Unrated Total Debt securities 51.2 51.2 Money market funds 107.5 107.5 Deposits with financial institutions 29.0 120.0 310.3 6.5 465.8 Loan funds 13.0 13.0 Hedge funds 13.1 13.1 187.7 120.0 310.3 32.6 650.6 Reinsurance assets 32.0 29.7 0.8 62.5 Total 187.7 152.0 340.0 33.4 713.1 c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity risk is to evaluate current and expected liquidity requirements to ensure that it maintains sufficient reserves of cash and headroom on its revolving credit facility.
The Group manages its obligations to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due by matching the maturity of investments to the expected maturity of claims payments.
The table below analyses the maturity of the Groups financial liabilities on contractual undiscounted payments.
The analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities is based on the remaining period at the reporting date to the contractual maturity date.
The analysis of claims outstanding is based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.
31 January 2015 m On demand Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years over 5 years Total Loans and borrowings 5.8 700.0 705.8 Interest on loans and borrowings 3.4 18.1 22.0 53.4 96.9 Insurance contract liabilities 187.5 186.7 236.2 125.7 736.1 Contingent consideration 6.2 6.2 Other liabilities 135.2 135.2 Trade and other payables 158.7 158.7 Derivative liabilities 12.0 1.7 13.7 303.1 223.8 210.4 989.6 125.7 1,852.6 Saga plc Saga plc 148 148 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 31 January 2014 m On demand Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years over 5 years Total Loans and borrowings 1,788.3 0.5 1.5 1,790.3 Insurance contract liabilities 135.4 152.7 294.6 161.7 744.4 Contingent consideration Other liabilities 122.4 122.4 Trade and other payables 164.9 164.9 Derivative liabilities 7.3 0.8 8.1 2,075.6 143.2 155.0 294.6 161.7 2,830.1 d. Insurance risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, cost and timing of insured events that could lead to significant individual or aggregated claims in terms of quantity or value.
This could be for a number of reasons, including weather-related events, large individual claims, changes in claimant behaviour patterns such as increased levels of fraudulent activities, the use of PPOs, prospective or retrospective legislative changes, unresponsive and inaccurate pricing or reserving methodologies and the deterioration in the Groups ability to effectively and efficiently handle claims while delivering excellent customer service.
The Group manages insurance risk within its risk management framework as set out by the Board.
The key policies and processes of mitigating these risks have been implemented, which include underwriting partnership arrangements, reinsurance and excess of loss contracts, pricing policies and claims management, and administration policies.
i Underwriting and pricing risk The Group primarily underwrites motor insurance for private cars in the UK.
The book consists of a large number of individual risks which are widely spread geographically which helps to minimise concentration risk.
The Group has controls in place to restrict access to its products to only those risks it wishes to underwrite.
The Group has management information to allow it to monitor underwriting performance on a continuous basis and the ability to make pricing and underwriting changes quickly.
The Group undertakes detailed statistical analyses of underwriting experience for each rating factor and combinations of rating factors to enable it to adjust pricing for emerging trends.
ii Reserving risk Reserving risk is the risk that insufficient funds have been set aside to settle claims as they fall due.
The Group undertakes regular internal actuarial reviews and commissions external actuarial reviews at least once a year.
These reviews estimate the future liabilities in order to consider the adequacy of the provisions.
Claims which are subject to PPOs are a significant source of uncertainty in the claims reserves.
Cash flow projections are undertaken for PPO claims to estimate the gross and net of reinsurance provisions required.
For PPOs, the provisions are discounted for future investment returns.
An important source of uncertainty is the risk of future legislative changes affecting bodily injury awards including the ongoing Ministry of Justice review of the discount rate.
iii Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance to reduce the impact of individual large losses or accumulations from a single catastrophe event.
The Group purchases individual excess of loss protections for the motor portfolio to limit the impact of a single large claim.
Similar protections are in place for all years for which the Group has written motor business.
The Group has quota share reinsurance in place for third-party branded motor business for drivers aged under 50.
Reinsurance recoveries on individual excess of loss protections can take many years to collect, particularly if a claim is subject to a PPO.
This means that the Group has exposure to reinsurance credit risk for many years.
Reinsurers are therefore required to have strong credit ratings and their financial health is regularly monitored.
Saga plc Saga plc 149 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 149 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 18 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued iv Sensitivities The following table demonstrates the impact on profit and loss and equity of a 1 percentage point variation in the recorded loss ratio at 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2014.
The impact of a 1% change in claims outstanding is also shown at the same dates.
The impact is shown net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
2015 2014 Impact of 1 percentage point change in loss ratio - 2.6m - 2.8m Impact of 1% change in claims outstanding - 3.9m - 3.9m Impact of a 0.25 percentage point change in discount rate for PPOs - 9.0m - 9.0m e. Operational risk Effective operational risk management requires the Group to identify, assess, manage, monitor, report and mitigate all areas of exposure.
The Group operates across a range of segments and operational risk is inherent in all of the Groups products and services, arising from the operation of assets, from external events and dependencies, and from internal processes and systems.
The Group manages its operational risk through the risk management framework agreed by the Board, and through the use of risk management tools which together ensure that operational risks are identified, managed and mitigated to the level accepted, and that contingency processes and disaster recovery plans are in place.
Regular reporting is undertaken to segment boards and includes details of new and emerging risks, as well as monitoring of existing risks.
Testing of contingency processes and disaster recovery plans is undertaken to ensure the effectiveness of these processes.
All of the Groups operations are dependent on the proper functioning of its IT and communication systems: on its properties and other infrastructure assets: on the need to adequately maintain and protect customer and employee data and other information: and on the ability of the Group to attract and retain staff.
Specific areas of operational risk by segment include: i Financial Services The Financial Services segment is required to comply with various operational regulatory requirements primarily in the UK but also within Gibraltar for its underwriting business.
To the extent that significant external events could increase the incidence of claims, these would place additional strain on the claims handling function but any financial impact of such an event is considered to be an insurance risk.
ii Travel The Travel segment operates two cruise ships which are the Groups largest trading assets.
Risk to the operation of these cruise ships arises from the impact of mechanical or other malfunction, non-compliance with regulatory requirements, and from global weather and socio-economic events.
The tour holidays operated by the segment are also affected by global weather and socioeconomic events which impact either the Group directly or its suppliers.
iii Healthcare Services The Healthcare Services segment provides a range of domiciliary and non-domiciliary, medical and non-medical services to a range of customers, clients and other end-users.
Risk to the operation of these services arises mainly from the availability of appropriately skilled staff to deliver the level and standard of care required by the end-user, and from the clinical oversight of the delivery of these services.
The Healthcare Services business which serves local authorities, Allied Healthcare, is being divested which will, in due course, reduce the Groups exposure to risk in this segment.
19 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities A structured entity is one which has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to the administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual agreements.
The Group has interests in unconsolidated structured entities as described below: Investment funds in the form of hedge funds Investment funds in the form of bank loan funds Investment funds in the form of money market funds The nature and purpose of the hedge and bank loan funds is to diversify the assets held within the investment portfolio and enhance the overall yield, whilst maintaining an acceptable level of risk for the portfolio as a whole.
Saga plc Saga plc 150 150 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The nature and purpose of the money market funds is to provide maximum security and liquidity for the funds invested whilst also providing an adequate return.
The primary activity of the hedge funds is to invest in a wide range of securities and markets, and the funds may take a variety of positions in these markets.
Bank loan funds invest in secured loans to companies rated below investment grade.
The money market funds used by the Group are all members of the International Money Market Funds Association and are therefore required to maintain specified liquidity and diversification characteristics on their underlying portfolios which comprise investment grade investments in financial institutions.
The Group invests in unconsolidated structured entities as part of its investment activities.
The Group does not sponsor any of the unconsolidated structured entities.
As at 31 January 2015, the Groups total interest in unconsolidated structured entities was 94.0m analysed as follows: Carrying value Interest income Fair value gains m m m Loan funds 19.6 Hedge funds 33.8 Money market funds 40.6 These investments are typically managed under insurance risk management as described in note 18.
The Groups maximum exposure to loss on the interests presented above is the carrying amount of the Groups investments.
No further loss can be made by the Group in relation to these investments.
For this reason, the total assets of the entities are not considered meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and have not been presented.
20 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 0.9 1.0 Finished goods 4.4 3.8 5.3 4.8 21 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 127.7 160.2 Other receivables 8.7 30.7 Prepayments 15.8 13.8 Deferred acquisition costs 9.3 8.7 Other taxes and social security costs 2.2 3.0 163.7 216.4 The ageing of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due Total nor impaired 30 days 30-60 days 61-90 days 91-120 days 120 days m m m m m m m 2015 127.7 116.7 3.8 1.5 1.0 0.8 3.9 2014 160.2 135.1 7.1 2.9 1.8 1.6 11.7 Saga plc Saga plc 151 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 151 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 21 Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 January 2015, impairment provisions totalling 9.0m 2014: 9.0m were made against trade receivables with an initial value of 136.7m 2014: 169.2m.
The movements in the provision for impairment of receivables are as follows: Individually Collectively impaired impaired Total m m m At 1 February 2013 1.2 9.1 10.3 Charge for the year 0.4 7.0 7.4 Unused amounts reversed 0.9 7.8 8.7 At 31 January 2014 0.7 8.3 9.0 Charge for the year 0.2 8.0 8.2 Utilised in the year 0.9 0.9 Unused amounts reversed 6.7 6.7 0.9 8.7 9.6 Reclassification to assets held for sale 0.6 0.6 At 31 January 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 See note 18 on credit risk of trade receivables, which explains how the Group manages and measures credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
22 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 66.5 52.4 Short-term deposits 132.3 98.9 Cash and short-term deposits 198.8 151.3 Money market funds 40.6 107.5 Bank overdraft 5.8 5.2 Cash held by disposal group 35 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 237.9 253.6 Included within cash and short-term deposits are amounts held by the Groups Travel and Insurance businesses which are subject to contractual or regulatory restrictions.
These amounts held are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group and total 85.2m 2014: 66.8m.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
23 Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 84.8 92.1 Other taxes and social security costs 9.2 12.3 Other payables 24.5 16.3 Accruals 40.2 44.2 158.7 164.9 All trade and other payables are current in nature.
Saga plc Saga plc 152 152 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 24 Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates retirement benefits for the employees of the Group consisting of defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group.
The total charge for the year in respect of the employers contributions for defined contribution schemes was 1.3m 2014: 0.9m.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of Trustees.
Defined benefit plans The Group operates three funded defined benefit schemes.
Two of these schemes, the Nestor Healthcare Group Retirement Benefits Scheme and the Healthcall Group Limited Pension Scheme Nestor schemes, provide benefits based on final salary and are closed to new members.
The Saga Pension Scheme Saga scheme is open to new members who accrue benefits on a career average salary basis.
The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
These plans are governed by the employment laws of the UK, which require final salary payments to be adjusted for the consumer price index once in payment during retirement.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and salary at retirement age.
The defined benefit pension plan requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The fund is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and employee representatives.
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
The long-term investment objectives of the Trustees and the Group are to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the schemes over the long term, and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the longterm costs of the schemes.
To meet those objectives, each schemes assets are invested in different categories of assets, with different maturities designed to match liabilities as they fall due.
The investment strategy will continue to evolve over time and is expected to match to the liability profile increasingly closely.
The pension liability is exposed to inflation rate risks and changes in the life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include investments in quoted equities, the Group is exposed to equity market risk.
The fair value of the assets and present value of the obligations of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total At 31 January 2015 Note m m m Fair value of scheme assets 212.3 54.0 266.3 Present value of defined benefit obligation 252.7 68.7 321.4 Defined benefit scheme liability 40.4 14.7 55.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 35 14.7 14.7 40.4 40.4 Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total At 31 January 2014 m m m Fair value of scheme assets 171.2 48.3 219.5 Present value of defined benefit obligation 186.1 57.7 243.8 Defined benefit scheme liability 14.9 9.4 24.3 The valuations used have been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the schemes.
The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs have been measured using the projected unit credit method.
Saga plc Saga plc 153 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 153 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 24 Retirement benefit schemes continued The following table summarises the components of the net benefit expense recognised in the income statement and amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for the schemes for the year ended 31 January 2015: Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total Fair value of Defined benefit Defined benefit Fair value of Defined benefit Defined benefit Defined benefit scheme assets obligation scheme liability scheme assets obligation scheme liability scheme liability m m m m m m m 1 February 2014 171.2 186.1 14.9 48.3 57.7 9.4 24.3 Pension cost charge to income statement Service cost 5.6 5.6 0.1 0.1 5.7 Net interest 7.6 8.1 0.5 2.1 2.4 0.3 0.8 Included in income statement 7.6 13.7 6.1 2.1 2.5 0.4 6.5 Benefits paid 3.3 3.3 2.8 2.8 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense 29.7 29.7 2.9 2.9 32.6 Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.4 0.4 0.9 0.9 1.3 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions 47.0 47.0 10.4 10.4 57.4 Experience adjustments 8.7 8.7 8.7 Included in other comprehensive income 26.4 52.8 26.4 0.1 8.5 8.4 34.8 Contributions by employer 7.1 0.1 7.0 3.5 3.5 10.5 31 January 2015 212.3 252.7 40.4 54.0 68.7 14.7 55.1 The following table summarises the components of the net benefit expense recognised in the income statement and amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for the schemes for the year ended 31 January 2014: Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total Fair value of Defined benefit Defined benefit Fair value of Defined benefit Defined benefit Defined benefit scheme assets obligation scheme liability scheme assets obligation scheme liability scheme liability m m m m m m m 1 February 2013 160.8 160.8 44.2 56.8 12.6 12.6 Pension cost charge to income statement Service cost 5.0 5.0 0.1 0.1 5.1 Net interest 7.6 7.5 0.1 2.1 2.6 0.5 0.4 Included in income statement 7.6 12.5 4.9 2.1 2.7 0.6 5.5 Benefits paid 2.9 2.9 1.7 1.7 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense 1.2 1.2 0.3 0.3 0.9 Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions 6.0 6.0 6.0 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions 9.6 9.6 2.8 2.8 12.4 Experience adjustments 2.9 2.9 2.9 Included in other comprehensive income 4.1 12.7 16.8 1.4 1.8 0.4 16.4 Contributions by employer 6.9 0.1 6.8 3.4 3.4 10.2 31 January 2014 171.2 186.1 14.9 48.3 57.7 9.4 24.3 Saga plc Saga plc 154 154 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The major categories of plan assets are as follows: Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total At 31 January 2015 m m m Equities 62.7 26.9 89.6 Government bonds 86.6 86.6 Corporate bonds 30.4 23.7 54.1 Property 20.2 20.2 Insurance policies 3.2 3.2 Cash and other 12.4 0.2 12.6 Total 212.3 54.0 266.3 Saga scheme Nestor schemes Total At 31 January 2014 m m m Equities 48.9 24.7 73.6 Government bonds 63.0 63.0 Corporate bonds 23.3 20.3 43.6 Property 17.1 17.1 Insurance policies 3.0 3.0 Cash and other 18.9 0.3 19.2 Total 171.2 48.3 219.5 Equities, Government bonds and Corporate bonds are all quoted in active markets whilst Property and Insurance policies are not.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligations for both the Saga scheme and the Nestor schemes are shown below: 2015 2014 Real rate of increase in salaries 0% 0% Real rate of increase of pensions in payment 0% 0% Real rate of increase of pensions in deferment 0% 0% Discount rate Pensioner 2.9% 4.1% Discount rate Non Pensioner 3.2% 4.5% Inflation Pensioner 2.6% 3.2% Inflation Non Pensioner 2.9% 3.4% Mortality assumptions are set using standard tables based on scheme-specific experience where available.
Each schemes mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements.
The Saga scheme assumption is that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 26.1 years if they are male.
The Nestor scheme assumption is that an active male retiring in normal health currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 23.6 years.
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 January 2015 and their impact on the net defined benefit obligation is as follows: Assumptions Discount rate Future inflation Life expectancy Future salary Sensitivity 0.25% - 0.25% 0.25% - 0.25% - 1 year - 0.25% Impact m 17.8 19.1 11.8 12.3 - 10.2 - 0.0 Note: a negative impact represents an increase in the net defined benefit liability.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
Saga plc Saga plc 155 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 155 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 24 Retirement benefit schemes continued For the Saga scheme, the expected contribution to the plan for the next year is 8.8m and the average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 22 years.
For the Nestor schemes, the expected contribution to the plan for the next year is 3.5m and the average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years.
Formal actuarial valuations take place every three years for each scheme.
The assumptions adopted for actuarial valuations are determined by the Trustee and are agreed with the Group and are normally more prudent than the assumptions adopted for IAS 19 purposes, which are best estimate.
Where a funding deficit is identified, the Group and the Trustee may agree a deficit recovery plan.
The latest valuations of the three schemes were at 31 January 2014 for the Saga scheme, 5 April 2012 for the Nestor Healthcare Group Retirement Benefits Scheme, and 31 October 2012 for the Healthcall Group Limited Pension Scheme.
Further to these valuations, recovery plans are in place for all three schemes.
Under the agreed recovery plans, the Group made additional payments totalling 3.4m during the year ended 31 January 2015 to the Nestor schemes, and will make payments totalling a further 19.2m over the next six years, with the last payment being made by 5 April 2020.
On the Saga scheme, the Group will make payments totalling 20.0m over the next ten years, with the last payment being made by 28 February 2024.
Total additional payments of 5.2m will be made during the year ending 31 January 2016.
These amounts are included in the expected contributions of 8.8m and 3.5m.
25 Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets The analysis of gross and net insurance liabilities is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Gross Claims outstanding 552.4 566.9 Provision for unearned premiums 152.3 161.4 Total gross insurance liabilities 704.7 728.3 2015 2014 m m Recoverable from reinsurers Claims outstanding 60.2 58.3 Provision for unearned reinsurance premiums 3.2 4.2 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 63.4 62.5 2015 2014 m m Net Claims outstanding 492.2 508.6 Provision for unearned premiums 149.1 157.2 Total net insurance liabilities 641.3 665.8 Saga plc Saga plc 156 156 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 2015 2014 Reconciliation of movements in claims outstanding Note m m Gross claims outstanding at 1 February 566.9 542.4 Less: reinsurance claims outstanding 58.3 41.8 Net claims outstanding at 1 February 508.6 500.6 Gross claims incurred 182.9 254.7 Less: reinsurance recoveries 3.6 17.7 Net claims incurred 3b 179.3 237.0 Gross claims paid 197.4 230.2 Less: received from reinsurance 1.7 1.2 Net claims paid 195.7 229.0 Gross claims outstanding at 31 January 552.4 566.9 Less: reinsurance claims outstanding 60.2 58.3 Net claims outstanding at 31 January 492.2 508.6 2015 2014 Reconciliation of movements in the provision for net unearned premiums Note m m Gross unearned premiums at 1 February 161.4 178.9 Less: unearned reinsurance premiums 4.2 2.5 Net unearned premiums at 1 February 157.2 176.4 Gross premiums written 324.2 358.2 Less: outward reinsurance premium 6.6 8.4 Net premiums written 317.6 349.8 Gross premiums earned 333.3 375.7 Less reinsurance premium earned 7.6 6.7 Net premiums earned 3a 325.7 369.0 Gross unearned premiums at 31 January 152.3 161.4 Less: unearned reinsurance premiums 3.2 4.2 Net unearned premiums at 31 January 149.1 157.2 The total loss on purchasing reinsurance recognised during the year was 4.0m 2014: 11.0m profit.
Discounting Claims outstanding provisions are calculated on an undiscounted basis, with the exception of PPOs made by the courts as part of a bodily injury claim settlement.
Claims outstanding provisions for PPOs are discounted at a rate of -1.5% 2014: -1.5% representing the Groups view on long-term carer wage inflation less the expected return on holding the invested financial assets associated with these claims.
The value of claims outstanding before discounting was 736.1m 2014: 744.4m gross of reinsurance and 599.1m 2014: 605.8m net of reinsurance.
The period between the balance sheet date and the estimated final payment date was calculated using Ogden life expectancy tables, with appropriate adjustments where necessary for impaired life.
The average life expectancy from PPO settlement date to the final PPO payment was 47 years 2014: 50 years and the rate of investment return used to determine the discounted value of claims provisions was 2.0% 2014: 2.0%.
Saga plc Saga plc 157 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 157 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 25 Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets continued b.
Analysis of net claims incurred: claims development tables The following table details the Groups initial estimate of ultimate net claims incurred over the past six years and the re-estimation at subsequent year ends.
The table details incurred claims net of reinsurance recoveries on an accident year basis.
Further to the decision to divest this business, the provisions have been included as part of the liabilities of the disposal group see note 35.
Other provisions primarily comprise claims in respect of clinical incidents, provisions for the return of insurance commission in respect of policies cancelled mid-term after the reporting date, credit hire claims handling provision, and fleet insurance at the estimated cost of settling all outstanding incidents at the reporting date.
These items are reviewed and updated annually.
27 Other liabilities 2015 2014 m m Advance receipts 122.3 99.3 Deferred revenue 7.0 9.8 Other liabilities 4.1 129.3 113.2 Current 129.3 108.8 Non-current 4.4 129.3 113.2 Advance receipts comprises amounts received within the Travel segment for holidays and cruises with departure dates after the reporting date, and insurance premiums and sales revenues received in the Financial Services segment in respect of insurance policies which commence after the reporting date.
Deferred revenue represents the unearned elements of revenue relating to the Media and Central Costs segment.
The amount comprises subscriptions for magazines to be delivered after the reporting date and revenue for advertising to be included after the reporting date.
28 Loans and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Bank loans, maturing 2019 700.0 Accrued interest payable 3.4 703.4 Less: deferred issue costs 11.2 692.2 On 17 April 2014, the Group entered into a Senior Facilities Agreement in order to provide appropriate debt finance and to ensure the availability of sufficient liquidity reserves for the Group going forward.
Prior to this, these facilities had been provided to the Group via its parent undertaking.
The amounts available to the Group under the Senior Facilities Agreement included i a term loan facility of 825.0m maturing in 2019 Facility A, ii a term loan facility of 425.0m maturing in 2020 Facility B and iii a multicurrency revolving credit facility of 150.0m.
On 25 April 2014, the Group drew 825.0m under Facility A and 425.0m under Facility B.
At the end of May 2014, following the receipt of 550.0m from the Groups flotation, Facility B was repaid in full and 125.0m of Facility A was repaid, leaving the outstanding principal on the Groups borrowings at 700.0m.
Further to the repayment of 550.0m, interest on the debt is incurred at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 2.25%.
To protect the Group from significant increases in interest rates, interest rate caps which cap LIBOR at 3.0% are in place to cover 510.0m of the debt through to June 2016.
During the period the Group charged 34.6m to the income statement in respect of fees and interest associated with the Senior Facilities Agreement.
Saga plc Saga plc 159 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 159 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 29 Called up share capital Ordinary shares Nominal value Nominal value Value Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid On incorporation 5 December 2013 1 1.00 Issue of shares 4 March 2014 2 1.00 Bonus issue allotment 1 May 2014 7,999,997 1.00 8.0 8,000,000 1.00 8.0 Sub-division of shares 1 May 2014 8,000,000 1.00 8.0 Sub-division of shares 1 May 2014 800,000,000 0.01 8.0 Issue of share capital on flotation 310,705,405 0.01 3.1 As at 31 January 2015 1,110,705,405 0.01 11.1 On incorporation on 5 December 2013, the Group issued a single share with a nominal value of 1 to its parent, increasing this to 8,000,000 shares on 1 May 2014 via the issue of two shares on 4 March 2014, and a bonus issue on 1 May 2014.
Following the bonus issue, the issued share capital was sub-divided into 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
On 29 May 2014, Saga plc was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, and issued 297,297,297 shares, raising 550m of funds which were utilised to repay part of the Groups bank debt see note 28.
The share premium arising on this transaction was 547.0m.
On the same date, the Group issued 13,408,108 shares into the associated Employee Benefit Trust predominantly in respect of the share options issued to certain Directors and employees on the same date see note 32. a.
Bonus issue free shares As part of the IPO, an offer was made to customers and employees of the Group under which they would receive one free share for every 20 shares purchased in the Initial Public Offering and held continuously for a period of one year following flotation.
At 29 April 2015, shareholders owning a total of 138.5m shares still qualify for this offer and on this basis, a bonus issue of approximately 7 million shares will be made on or around 29 May 2015. b.
Employee Benefit Trust The Employee Benefit Trust purchased 13,408,108 shares at their nominal value of 134,000 during the year.
There were no associated transaction costs.
During the year, employees exercised options over 539,320 of these shares which were transferred from the Employee Benefit Trust into the direct ownership of the employee.
The remaining 12,868,788 shares have been treated as treasury shares at 31 January 2015.
30 Corporate restructuring In preparation for the listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange, a corporate restructuring took place to establish the Group in its current legal form, and to settle outstanding balances between the Group and its parent undertaking.
Prior to entering into the new Senior Facilities Agreement see note 28, the Groups existing debt facilities were provided by Acromas Mid Co Limited, an intermediate parent company, and distributed to the Group via intercompany loans.
Dividend distributions totalling 2,063.0m were made in order to facilitate the repayment of Acromas Mid Co Limiteds borrowings following the draw-down of the new Group facilities on 25 April 2014, and to eliminate other intercompany liabilities.
The amount of 2,063.0m comprises 1,269.5m paid to Acromas Bid Co Limited by Saga plc and 793.5m paid to Acromas Bid Co Limited by Saga Mid Co Limited and which has been included in accordance with the basis of preparation see note 2.1.
Finally, the Group used part of its distributable reserves to release its parent undertakings from the remaining balance due to it.
Following these transactions, the amounts owed by and to parent undertakings were reduced to nil.
Saga plc Saga plc 160 160 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 31 Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
For the purposes of the Groups capital management, capital includes issued capital, share premium and all other capital reserves attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
It also includes capital, share premium and all other capital reserves of any subsidiaries within the Group which are required to comply with any specific requirements in respect of its capital or other resources.
The Group operates in a number of regulated markets.
Its Financial Services businesses are regulated primarily by the Financial Services Commission FSC in Gibraltar and by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the UK: and the capital requirements of its Travel businesses are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK.
It is the Groups policy to comply with the requirements of these regulators in respect of capital adequacy or other similar tests at all times.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 January 2015 or 31 January 2014, other than those driven from changes to the requirements of the various regulators.
The Groups regulated underwriting business is based in Gibraltar and regulated by the FSC.
The underwriting business is required to comply with various tests to ensure that it has a sufficient level of capitalisation.
The FSC requires the underwriting business to hold solvency capital of at least twice the required minimum margin RMM, and current levels are approximately 277% of the RMM.
The Group monitors its compliance with this and other tests on a monthly basis including forward-looking compliance using budgets and forecasts.
The Groups underwriting business will be required to comply with the European Unions Solvency II Directive for insurance companies when it comes into force.
Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry which establishes a revised set of capital requirements and risk management standards with the aim of increasing protection for policyholders.
The new regime applies to all insurance companies with gross premium income exceeding 5m or gross technical provisions in excess of 25m, and is expected to be effective from January 2016.
The Group has been monitoring its ability to comply with the requirements of Solvency II when it comes into force and current calculations indicate comfortable margins using both the standard formula and the businesss internal model.
The Groups regulated insurance distribution businesses are based in the UK and regulated by the FCA.
Due to the nature of these businesses, the capital requirements are less significant than the underwriting business but the Group is required to comply with the Adequate Resources requirements of Threshold Condition 4 of the FCA Handbook.
The Group undertakes a rigorous assessment against the requirements of this Condition on an annual basis and, as a consequence of this, calculates and holds an appropriate amount of capital in respect of these businesses.
The regulated Travel businesses are required to comply with two main tests covering liquidity and leverage.
The Group monitors its compliance with these tests on a monthly basis including forward-looking compliance using budgets and forecasts, and is required to comply with agreed covenants on the last day of each quarter in respect of these tests.
The Group treats all cash and other financial assets held within its regulated businesses as restricted and not therefore available to be used by the Group for any purposes outside of those of the relevant restricted business.
The Group enters into regular open communication with its regulators and any distribution of capital from those businesses to the Group is agreed in advance.
32 Share-based payments During the year, the Group has granted a number of different equity-based awards to employees and customers which it has determined to be share-based payments: a.
Share options granted at the time of the IPO These share options were granted to certain Directors and employees at the time of the IPO in recognition for their service leading up to Saga plcs listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Options over 13,132,410 shares of Saga plc were issued with no exercise price and have no service or performance vesting conditions.
The fair value of these options is calculated as the fair value of the shares at the date of the grant.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Saga plc Saga plc 161 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 161 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 32 Share-based payments continued b.
Share options granted to the Group Chief Executive Officer at the time of the IPO Share options over 2,162,162 shares of Saga plc were issued to the Group Chief Executive Officer on 29 May 2014.
Vesting occurs 25% on the third anniversary of the IPO, 25% on the fourth anniversary of the IPO and 50% on the fifth anniversary of the IPO.
The Group Chief Executive Officer must remain in the employment of Saga plc during this time in order for the share options to vest.
This award will be equity settled and has no cash alternative.
The exercise price of the share options is 1.85. c. Free shares offer granted to customers and employees at the time of the IPO Under the offer made in the prospectus for the IPO, eligible customers and employees who acquired their shares under the customer or employee offers will receive one free share for every 20 shares they acquired at the IPO and hold continuously for one year to 29 May 2015.
As these are free shares, there is no exercise price and there is also no cash alternative settlement.
The fair value of the potential free shares is equal to the fair value at the Admission date.
d. Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is a discretionary executive share plan.
Under the LTIP, the Board may, within certain limits and subject to applicable performance conditions, grant options over shares in Saga plc.
These options have a non-market vesting condition 50% and a market vesting condition 50%.
The fair value of the options has been calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation.
During the year, share options over 4,015,508 shares were issued to certain Directors and employees on 30 June 2014 and on 2 December 2014, both of which vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date and are 50% linked to EPS performance and 50% linked to TSR performance.
The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: 2015 m Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 41.8 Expense arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 41.8 The table below summarises the movements in the number of share options outstanding for the Group and their weighted average exercise price: IPO Options CEO Options LTIP Total Outstanding at 1 February 2014 Granted during the year 13,132,410 2,162,162 4,015,508 19,310,080 Forfeited during the year 130,642 130,642 Exercised during the year 539,320 539,320 Outstanding at 31 January 2015 12,593,090 2,162,162 3,884,866 18,640,118 Exercise price nil 1.85 nil 0.62 Exercisable at 31 January 2015 12,593,090 12,593,090 Average remaining contractual life 9.3 years 3.6 years 2.4 years 7.2 years Average fair value at grant 1.85 0.39 1.74 1.50 Saga plc Saga plc 162 162 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the sharebased remuneration schemes operated by the Group: CEO Options LTIP EPS tranche LTIP TSR tranche Model used Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Monte-Carlo Dividend yield % 2.63% n a n a Risk-free interest rate % 3 years: 1.2% p. a.
Expected life of share option years 3 4 5 years based 3 years 3 years on tranche of the award Share price 1.85 1.74 1.74 Share price volatility 3 years: 31.8% 31.8% 31.8% 4 years: 31.1% 5 years: 32.0% As historical data for the Groups share price is not available, the Group has estimated the Companys share price volatility as an average of the volatilities of its TSR comparator group over a historical period commensurate with the expected life of the award immediately prior to the date of the grant.
For future valuations, at a date when sufficient Saga share price data becomes available, the Group intends to estimate the Company volatility directly from this data.
The total amount charged to the income statement in the year ended 31 January 2015 is 41.8m.
This has been charged to administrative and selling expenses 1.0m and exceptional expenses 40.8m note 4b.
The Group did not enter into any share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees and customers during the year.
Saga plc Saga plc 163 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 163 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 33 Cash flow from operating activities 2015 2014 Note m m Operating activities Profit before tax from continuing operations 113.8 171.3 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 222.4 22.1 Loss profit before tax 108.6 149.2 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 20.1 28.3 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14 22.1 29.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 16 1.6 Share-based payment expense 32 41.8 Loss on re-measurement of disposal group held for sale 35 209.5 Finance costs 6 35.1 10.6 Finance income 7 2.9 0.1 Share of post-tax profits of joint venture 1.2 Interest income from investments 5 13.9 12.7 Movement in reinsurance assets 0.9 18.2 Movement in inventories 0.5 1.6 Movement in trade and other receivables 15.8 33.3 Movement in prepayments 4.3 6.4 Movement in retirement benefit scheme obligations 4.5 4.5 Movement in gross insurance contract liabilities 23.6 7.0 Movement in provisions 0.2 0.2 Movement in other liabilities 16.1 7.5 Movement in trade and other payables 1.6 5.6 198.3 218.5 Interest received 8.9 12.6 Interest paid 19.7 Debt issue costs 22.6 Interest on finance lease agreements 0.1 Income tax paid 9.6 56.9 Net cash flows from operating activities 155.3 174.1 34 Commitments and contingencies a.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings and plant and machinery.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 January are as follows: Land and Buildings Plant and Machinery 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Within one year 2.1 3.8 0.3 0.5 Between one and five years 6.2 7.2 1.8 0.3 After five years 7.2 15.9 15.5 26.9 2.1 0.8 Saga plc Saga plc 164 164 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 b.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
These leases have terms of renewal and no purchase options.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present values of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 0.1 0.5 Between one and five years 0.1 0.1 After five years Total minimum lease payments 0.2 0.6 Less amounts representing finance charge Present value of minimum lease payments 0.2 0.6 c. Commitments Capital amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to nil 2014: nil.
On 28 January 2015, the Group announced its commitment to acquire Bennetts, the UKs premier motorbike insurance specialist, from BGL Group Limited, for a total consideration of 26.3m.
The acquisition is subject to FCA and other regulatory approvals and certain other contractual requirements and is required to be completed by 5 August 2015, although it is both parties intention to complete the purchase earlier than that.
d. Contingent liabilities At 31 January 2015, the Group had secured 31.0m 2014: nil of financial bonds and other guarantees on a revolving credit facility provided to Saga Mid Co Limited.
If these bonds were called, the facility would be treated as drawn and recognised as a liability on the Groups balance sheet.
The revolving credit facility is secured by a floating charge over the Groups assets.
The Association of British Travel Agents regulates the Groups UK tour operating business and requires the Group to put in place bonds to provide customer protection.
These bonds are included within the financial bonds described above.
35 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale On 15 January 2015, the Group announced its decision to divest the local authority section of its Healthcare business, Allied Healthcare.
As at 31 January 2015, the requirements of IFRS 5 were met and accordingly Allied Healthcare has been classified as a disposal group held for sale in the statement of financial position and as a discontinued operation in the income statement.
The sale of the business is expected to be completed by 31 January 2016.
The loss after tax in the income statement in respect of the discontinued operation is comprised as follows: 2015 2014 m m Loss profit after tax, before amortisation and impairment 0.3 0.3 Amortisation of associated intangible assets 10.4 14.9 Impairment of associated intangible assets 3.7 Loss on re-measurement of disposal group to fair value 209.5 220.2 18.3 The impact of the discontinued operation on the reported earnings per share was as follows: 2015 2014 Basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 21.9p 2.4p Saga plc Saga plc 165 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 165 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 35 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued a.
Results of Allied Healthcare for the year 2015 2014 m m Revenue 283.2 313.8 Cost of sales 199.8 224.7 Gross profit 83.4 89.1 Administrative and selling expenses 74.4 81.6 Trading EBITDA 9.0 7.5 Depreciation 2.8 2.6 Exceptional expenses 8.4 7.9 Net finance expense on retirement benefit schemes 0.3 0.5 Loss before tax 2.5 3.5 Tax expense 2.2 3.8 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 0.3 0.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 0.7 0.8 Non-controlling interests 0.4 1.1 0.3 0.3 The exceptional costs of 8.4m 2014: 7.9m relate to an ongoing programme of restructuring within the business.
b. Amortisation of associated intangible assets During the year, the Group charged amortisation on the intangible assets acquired with the Allied Healthcare business to the income statement totalling 10.4m 2014: 14.9m amortisation, 3.7m impairment.
c. Loss on re-measurement The assets and liabilities of Allied Healthcare classified as held for sale as at 31 January 2015 are as follows: Measurement to fair value Book value m m Assets Goodwill 177.8 Intangible assets 19.9 Property, plant and equipment 6.1 Deferred tax assets 5.4 3.0 Trade and other receivables 40.4 40.4 Cash and short-term deposits 4.3 4.3 253.9 47.7 Liabilities Trade and other payables 17.8 17.8 Financial liabilities 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities 4.1 Retirement benefit scheme obligations 14.7 14.7 Provisions 3.1 3.1 Other liabilities 4.4 4.4 Provision for loss costs of disposal 7.4 44.4 47.7 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 209.5 Loss on re-measurement to fair value 209.5 Fair value of disposal group Following the classification of Allied Healthcare as a discontinued operation, a write-down of 209.5m was recognised on 31 January 2015 to reduce the carrying amount of the net assets in the disposal group to nil.
Saga plc Saga plc 166 166 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015 The fair value of the business was determined by considering the current asset and liability position, the future profit cash flows and associated capital investment set out within the five year plan for the business, the risks attaching to the various cash flows, and the expected costs of disposing of the business.
In determining the fair value, reference was made to other market transactions, and standard valuation techniques were adopted.
Having determined the fair value of nil, the write-down was allocated first to the non-current assets with a provision created of 7.4m for the costs of disposal and any associated loss.
d. Net cash flows of Allied Healthcare during the year 2015 2014 m m Operating 3.6 7.3 Investing 3.5 2.8 Financing Net cash inflow 0.1 4.5 36 Subsidiaries The principal operating subsidiary undertakings of Saga plc, all of which are wholly owned, are listed below.
All of the principal subsidiary undertakings of Saga plc are indirectly held by the Company, with the exception of Saga Mid Co Limited which is directly held.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Name Country of registration Nature of business Saga Mid Co Limited England Holding company Saga Leisure Limited England Holding company Saga Group Limited England Holding company Saga Services Limited England Financial services Direct Choice Insurance Services Limited England Insurance services Acromas Financial Services Limited England Regulated investment products Acromas Holidays Limited England Tour operating Acromas Shipping Limited England Cruising Destinology Limited England Tour operating Saga Publishing Limited England Publishing MetroMail Limited England Mailing house CHMC Limited England Motor accident management Acromas Insurance Company Limited Gibraltar Insurance underwriting Nestor Healthcare Group Limited England Holding company Nestor Primecare Services Limited England Primary and social care Allied Healthcare Group Holdings Limited England Holding company Allied Healthcare Holdings Limited England Holding company Allied Healthcare Group Limited England Primary and social care Saga plc Saga plc 167 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 167 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued financial statements continued 37 Related party transactions The following table provides the total value of transactions with related parties during the year: 2015 2014 m m Sales to the AA group Insurance underwriting related 18.3 52.7 Non insurance underwriting related 2.7 10.4 Purchases from the AA group Insurance underwriting related 7.0 14.8 Non insurance underwriting related 0.3 0.8 Reinsurance transactions with the AA group Reinsurance premium payments 0.2 0.8 Reinsurance claims receipts 0.2 0.3 Receipts from payments to related parties Parent undertaking 774.9 814.7 Related group undertaking 4.1 1,262.2 On 26 June 2014, the Acromas group sold its entire shareholding in the AA group and the Groups related party relationship ceased with it on that date.
Other transactions during the year C N C Sherwood, a Non-Executive Director of Saga plc, is also a Partner of Permira Advisers, where he serves on the firms holding company board and investment committee.
Mr Sherwood also serves as Non-Executive Director on the boards of a number of Permiras investments and as a Non-Executive Director of Acromas Holdings Limited, the ultimate controlling party of Saga plc.
The ultimate controlling parties of Acromas Holdings Limited include funds advised by Permira Advisers.
Acromas Financial Services Limited, an indirectly held subsidiary of Saga plc, traded with Just Retirement Group plc during the year, acting as agent in respect of the latters care funding annuity and equity release products, earning commission and fixed contributions.
Permira Advisers are the ultimate controlling party of Just Retirement Group plc.
During the year ended 31 January 2015, Acromas Financial Services Limited earned commission and fixed contributions relating to Just Retirement Group plcs care funding and equity release products of 1.3m.
As at 31 January 2015, amounts invoiced and owed to Acromas Financial Services Limited by Just Retirement Group plc were 0.4m.
In January 2015, Acromas Financial Services Limited entered in to a joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest to provide investment products to Sagas customers.
Permira Advisers are the ultimate controlling party of Tilney Bestinvest.
During the year ended 31 January 2015, no commission or revenue was received by Acromas Financial Services Limited from Tilney Bestinvest.
As at 31 January 2015, amounts invoiced and owed to Acromas Financial Services Limited by Tilney Bestinvest were nil.
G Williams, an independent Non-Executive Director of Saga plc, serves on the board of WNS Holdings Limited, a company which Acromas Insurance Company Limited, an indirectly held subsidiary of Saga plc, traded with during the year.
WNS Holdings Limited provides claims handling management services to Acromas Insurance Company Limited and during the year ended 31 January 2015 earned fees of 5.8m 2014: 6.0m : further payments to WNS Holdings Limited in respect of repair costs on claims handled by them totalled 41.9m 2014: 45.5m.
As at 31 January 2015, amounts owing to WNS Holdings Limited for fees and repair costs were 3.7m 2014: 2.6m.
38 Ultimate parent undertaking The immediate parent undertaking is Acromas Bid Co Limited, a company which is registered in England and Wales.
The financial statements of the Company are consolidated in the group financial statements of Acromas Holdings Limited the ultimate parent undertaking, which is registered in England and Wales.
39 Ultimate controlling party The Directors considers the ultimate controlling party to be funds advised by Charterhouse General Partners, CVC Capital Partners and Permira Advisers acting in concert.
Saga plc Saga plc 168 168 Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts 2015 for the year ending 31 January 2015
