Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other notes 15 Acquisitions and disposals The following note outlines acquisitions and disposals during the year and the accompanying accounting policies.
Each acquisition or disposal during the year is discussed in detail and the effects on the results of the Group are highlighted.
Accounting policy The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange, of assets acquired, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in the income statement.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups total identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the difference is recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
Any subsequent adjustment to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Acquisition-related items such as legal or professional fees are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant shares acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Where the Group enters into put and call arrangements over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest until the ownership risks and rewards of those shares transfer to the Group.
15.1 Acquisitions made during the year Acquisition of Paychoice On 16 October 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of PAI Group, Inc. PayChoice, a provider of payroll and HR services for small and medium sized businesses in North America, for a cash consideration of 75.2m.
On the date of acquisition, the external debt acquired from PayChoice was settled for 22.2m.
The acquisition strengthens Sages position in the large and growing US payroll market.
The allocation of the consideration has been subject to a purchase price allocation exercise during the period.
The excess of consideration over the net assets acquired has been allocated accordingly across asset and liability categories.
PayChoices product portfolio provides easy to use online payroll solutions to small and medium sized businesses SMBs, and strengthens the Sage value proposition to customers with a more robust and comprehensive offering.
The combined portfolio provides attractive growth opportunities, particularly through new customer acquisition and cross-sell to the combined customer base.
Summary of acquisitions m Purchase consideration 75.2 Fair value of net identifiable assets 15.6 Goodwill 59.6 152 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
