Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company accounting policies Company accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important Company accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange prevailing at the date of the balance sheet or at the agreed contractual rate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into sterling at the rate prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
All differences on exchange are taken to the profit and loss account.
Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for any diminution in value.
Parent Company profit and loss account The amount of profit for the financial year before dividends within the accounts of the parent Company is 64.3m 2014: 538.0m.
There is no material difference between the profits and losses as reported above and historical cost profits and losses and there are no other gains or losses in the year.
No profit and loss account or cash flow statement is presented for the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors remuneration The audit fees payable in relation to the audit of the financial statements of the Company are 30,000 2014: 27,000.
Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and their interest in shares and options of the Company are given in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 92.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the shares that will eventually vest allowing for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes or the Monte Carlo pricing models.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Company also provides certain employees with the ability to purchase the Companys ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value at the date of the grant.
The Company records an expense, based on its estimate of the discount related to shares expected to vest, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
At the end of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates for the number of options expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Financial instruments The accounting policy of the Company for financial instruments is the same as that shown in the Group accounting policies.
This policy is in accordance with FRS 26, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
158 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
