Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2015 continued 5.
Critical accounting estimates and management d Estimated impairment of assets judgements The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where there experience, current market conditions and other factors including are indicators of impairment.
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this there are changes in circumstances on which the estimate was method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to arise based, or as aresult of new information or more experience.
The from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the estimates and management judgements that have asignificant risk choice of asuitable discount rate in order to calculate the present of causing amaterial adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
The estimates used in these financial statements are contained in Note 15.2. a Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations depends e Valuation of intangible assets and useful life on anumber of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential future using anumber of assumptions including the discount rate.
Any cash flows to be determined from separable intangible assets changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of acquired as part of business combinations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, rate at the end of each year.
In determining the appropriate discount appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets.
These rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate assumptions impact the income statement over the useful life of the bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will intangible asset.
be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension f Provisions obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Additional The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
information is disclosed in Note 10.
Provisions made within these financial statements and further details are contained in Note 25.1.
Additional claims could be made which b Income taxes might not be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax g Fair value of options granted to employees determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome of these The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax detailed in the Remuneration report.
Information on such assumptions provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of c Deferred taxes the award.
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in h Award of options and deferred shares to employees the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its long-term the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current policy is to group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the market value of especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the value of award is available against which losses can be utilised.
Additional information spread over the vesting period and charged to the income statement.
96 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
