Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2015 2.3 Consolidation 1.
General information The consolidated financial statements include those of the Company Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of is aglobal real estate services Group.
The Group operates through results of its associates and joint ventures.
anetwork of offices in the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is listed on the London Stock a Subsidiaries Exchange and employs 30,696 staff worldwide.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has The Company is apublic limited company incorporated and rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by control ceases.
the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016.
The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to account 2.
Accounting policies for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these acquisition of asubsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
liability resulting from acontingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 2.1 Basis of preparation assumed in abusiness combination are measured initially at their fair These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any nonInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS controlling interest in the acquiree on an  Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by the basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on agoing concern basis and Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving ahigher degree of remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates within equity.
are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and 2.2 Use of non-GAAP measures losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share provides subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure additional useful information to shareholders on the underlying trends consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
and comparable performance of the Group over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, arrangements for employees.
These terms are not defined terms less any provision for impairment.
under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended b Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change to be asubstitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software : relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to profit-related performance compensation subject to deferral and non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
the opportunity cash cost of such compensation refer to Note 8 and Note 14.2 for further explanation : c Disposal of subsidiaries items that are considered non-operational in nature including When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the restructuring costs, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, and investments and profits or losses arising on disposals of subsidiaries and other investments: and with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
significant acquisition costs related to business combinations.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, 86 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements transferred.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity adopted by the Group.
are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised 2.4 Segment reporting in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Operating segments are reported in amanner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
d Associates The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, influence but not control, generally accompanying ashareholding has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
A business segment is agroup of assets and operations engaged in Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to are different from those of other business segments.
Ageographical recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after segment is engaged in providing products or services within the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates aparticular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified that are different from those of segments operating in other on acquisition see Note 17.1. economic environments.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types of influence is retained, only aproportionate share of the amounts services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates, previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified the matrix approach of disclosing both the business and to profit or loss where appropriate.
geographical segments formats is used.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis that recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be allocated movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other on areasonable basis.
comprehensive income with acorresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of 2.5 Foreign currency translation losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, a Functional and presentation currency including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups recognise further losses unless it has incurred legal or constructive entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its which is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the b Transactions and balances transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the by the Group.
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except recognised in the income statement.
when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
e Joint arrangements The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS11 Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and recognised in the income statement, except for available-for-sale obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures c Group entities are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups Groups presentational currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at share of losses in ajoint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint operations are taken directly to the foreign exchange reserve.
When ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the aforeign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the amount in the foreign exchange reserve is transferred to the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset income statement.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 87 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2015 continued 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
are met: Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that recognised as aseparate asset, as appropriate, only when it is it will be available for use: probable that the future economic benefits associated with the management intends to complete the software product and use item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be or sell it: measured reliably.
there is an ability to use or sell the software product: it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on astraightprobable future economic benefits: line basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete as follows: the development and to use or sell the software product are available: and the expenditure attributable to the software product during its Freehold property 50 years development can be reliably measured.
Short leasehold property less than 50 years Over unexpired term of lease Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less Equipment and motor vehicles 310 years accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation charges are spread on astraight-line basis over the Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Customer relationships 315 years recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater Order back-log 5 years than its estimated recoverable amount.
Contracts Investment, property management and other existing business contracts 220 years 2.7 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of Computer software 35 years asubsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Acquired investment management contracts relating to open-ended funds have been attributed indefinite useful lives.
In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment.
2.9 Impairment of other non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
or depreciation and are tested annually for impairment or whenever an Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment, indicator of impairment exists.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of potential impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that amount by which the carrying value exceeds the recoverable the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and to sell and its value-in-use.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets fair value less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses on goodwill are other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow method, impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit risks associated with the asset.
from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in the For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the geographical region in which it operates Note 15. lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to estimate the Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
2.8 Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and 2.10 Financial instruments incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on acquisition is determined statement of financial position at fair value when the Group becomes by third-party valuation where the acquisition is significant.
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed in Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of paragraphs 2.112.16. the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported recognised as an expense as incurred.
in the balance sheet where there is alegally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on anet basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
88 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 2.16 Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group derecognises afinancial asset when the contractual Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date aderivative rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on ownership of the asset to another party.
On derecognition of whether the derivative is designated as ahedging instrument and if so, afinancial asset in its entirety, the difference between the assets the nature of the item being hedged.
carrying amount and the sum of consideration received is recognised in profit or loss.
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these cases, changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, recognised immediately in the income statement.
the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability 2.17 Share capital derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 2.11 Available-for-sale investments as adeduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share capital is Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
attributable costs, is recognised as acharge to equity.
Repurchased When such investments are disposed or become impaired, the shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the Employee accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other Benefit Trust, are classified as treasury shares and presented as comprehensive income, are recognised in the income statement.
2.12 Trade receivables 2.18 Taxation Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that impairment.
Receivables are discounted where the time value of it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or money is material.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes between the assets carrying amount and the present value of provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial income statement within other operating expenses.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if receivable is uncollected, it is written off against the allowance they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset previously written off are credited against other operating expenses or liability in atransaction other than abusiness combination that at in the income statement.
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and 2.13 Cash and cash equivalents laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred on call with banks, together with other short-term highly liquid income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability investments with original maturities of three months or less and is settled.
working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are included under borrowings Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it in the statement of financial position.
is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
2.14 Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently investments in subsidiaries and associates except for deferred income measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 2.15 Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as alegally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current non-current liabilities.
tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on anet basis.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 89 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2015 continued 2.21 Employee Benefit Trust 2.19 Pension obligations The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution BenefitTrust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant awards to plans.
Adefined contribution plan is apension plan under which the employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant to the Savills Group pays fixed contributions into aseparate entity.
The Group has Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan and to no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees on fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits the vesting of the awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Adefined liabilities of the EBT are included in the Group statement of financial benefit plan is apension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit position.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one adeduction from equity.
or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
2.22 Provisions The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in Provisions are recognised when the Group has apresent legal respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the orconstructive obligation as aresult of apast event, it is probable defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The theDirectors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by theobligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
value where the effect is material.
The defined benefit scheme charge consists of net interest costs, a Professional indemnity claims past service costs and the impact of any settlements or curtailments Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised when it and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
isprobable that the Group will be required to settle claims against it as aresult of apast event and the amount of the obligation can be All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other reliably estimated.
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
b Dilapidation provisions The Group also operates adefined contribution Group Personal The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and restore Pension Plan for new entrants and anumber of defined contribution properties to agreed specifications on leased properties prior individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect of defined totheproperties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement Provisionfor such cost is made where alegal obligation is when they are payable.
The Group has no further payment obligations identifiedand the liability can be reasonably quantified.
once the contributions have been paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that acash refund or areduction c Onerous leases in the future payments is available.
A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the obligations under alease contract exceed the economic benefits expected The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating tobereceived and is measured as the net least cost of exiting Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
thecontract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
2.20 Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
d Restructuring provision The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the A provision is recognised when there is apresent constructive grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when there isadetailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about thebusiness or part of the business concerned, principal locations the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is affected and the location, function and approximate number of recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all employees to be compensated for terminating their services and of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of whenthe plan has been communicated to those affected by it, each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number raisingan expectation that the plan will be carried out.
of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original 2.23 Revenue estimates, if any, in the income statement, with acorresponding Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or adjustment to equity.
receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax and All equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue within at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the the Group.
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on astraight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of a Residential transactional fees shares that will eventually vest.
Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is recognised on exchange of contracts.
However, on more complex contracts, The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured by revenue will be recognised on the date of completion.
On multi-unit the use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are developments, revenue is recognised on astaged basis, based expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the on each contract, commencing when the underlying contracts revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and are exchanged.
acorresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The cash proceeds received net of any directly attributable b Commercial transactional fees transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or when share premium when the options are exercised.
unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
90 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 2.25 Dividends c Property consultancy Dividend distributions are recognised as aliability in the Groups Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents commissions financial statements in the period in which they are approved by and fees recognised on atime basis, fixed fee or percentage of theCompanys shareholders.
Percentage of completion is principally measured by the proportion of actual costs incurred in relation to the best estimate of Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
total costs expected for completion of the contract.
2.26 Adoption of standards, amendments and interpretations d Property and facilities management tostandards Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and Standards, amendments and interpretations mandatorily effective providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the forthe first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 that services are provided using astraight-line basis over the term are not relevant or considered significant to the Group include of the contract.
thefollowing: e Investment management Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of Amendments to IAS 19 Clarification on accounting for marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
employee contributions to defined benefit plans Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs period to which the service has been provided, in accordance with 20112013 Cycle the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are recognised on Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs the date of completion of apurchase or sale transaction.
Distribution 20102012 Cycle fees are recognised on the completion of asigned subscription agreement and performance fees are recognised as earned and when approved by the fund.
The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after f Work in progress 1January 2016, and have not been early adopted: Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an IFRS 16, Leases, effective for the accounting periods beginning on appropriate proportion of overheads.
or after 1 January 2019 subject to EU endorsement.
The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of g Interest income leases with the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors Interest income is recognised on atime-proportion basis using the provide relevant information that faithfully represents those effective interest method.
The standard supersedes IAS 17 Leases.
The impact of the standard is currently being assessed.
h Dividend income IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, effective for Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 subject is established.
The standard establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements i Other income about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and Other income includes interest and dividend income on available-forcash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
sale investments plus fair value gains and losses on assets at fair Revenue is recognised when acustomer obtains control of value through profit or loss.
agood or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard 2.24 Leases replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has and related interpretations.
The application of IFRS is not substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as expected to have amaterial impact on the amounts recognised finance leases.
in the Groups consolidated financial statements however, it may have amaterial impact on the disclosures.
The impact of the Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to standard is currently being assessed.
the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum IFRS 9, Financial instruments, including amendments, effective for lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets are then accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2018.
This depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated useful standard addresses the classification, measurement and lives of the assets.
recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Leasing the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary payments comprise capital and finance elements and the finance measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair element is charged to the income statement.
value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss.
The basis of classification depends on the entitys The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the leases are charged to the income statement on astraight-line basis financial asset.
There is now anew expected credit losses model over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. to enter into the operating lease are also spread on astraight-line For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and basis over the lease term.
measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of value through profit or loss.
The application of IFRS 9 is not expected meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic to have amaterial impact on the amounts reported in the Groups benefits expected to be received under it.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 91
