Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the acquisition of Smiths Gore and SEB In testing the acquisitions of Smiths Gore and SEB, we performed Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, page 86 Significant the following: Accounting Policies and pages 115 and 116 Notes.
We verified the fair value of consideration paid of acquisitions, including During the year, the Group made a number of acquisitions including any deferred or contingent element, to cash transactions and the sales Smiths Gore in the UK, SEB Asset Management in Germany and and purchase agreements SPAs.
Cooper Brady Partners in the US.
Fair value adjustments On grounds of materiality, we considered the acquisition of Smiths Gore, We assessed the completeness of the fair value assessment made by a UK-based rural property management business, for total consideration management against our own expectations, formed from reading the of up to 33.1m, and the acquisition of SEB, a European fund manager, due diligence reports prepared during the acquisition and our audit for total consideration of 11.3m, to be the most significant.
work on the completion balance sheet with respect to the fair value of assets acquired.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Smiths Gore and SEB is considered under the goodwill area of focus.
Based on our understanding of the respective businesses, reading the SPA and our knowledge and experience of the industries in which they Accounting for the acquisitions required a provisional fair value exercise, operate, we determined that managements analysis appropriately including identifying and valuing separately identifiable intangible assets.
reflected the fair value exercises and that the relevant intangible assets The process of valuing the intangible assets can be a particularly had been identified.
Valuation of identifiable intangible assets Fair value adjustments We looked in detail at the work performed on the purchase price Management did not identify any additional exposures during either due allocations by managements external experts, to test the valuation diligence process that had not already been recorded at the balance placed on the separately identifiable intangibles.
sheet date and management recorded all the other assets and liabilities acquired at their fair values in the completion balance sheets.
We evaluated the professional competence and objectivity of those experts and challenged the key assumptions by sensitising Under IFRSs, the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities are the following: provisional and can be revised within the measurement period of one year from the date of acquisition.
The growth rates used and expected economic life of customer relationships in the valuation of customer relationships in Valuation of identifiable intangibles Smiths Gore: Management identified customer relationships as the only separately The revenue projections and forecast margin assumptions identifiable intangible asset on acquisition of Smiths Gore, with a underpinning the valuation of institutional customer relationships carrying value of 7.0m at 31 December 2015.
Management considered in SEB, and the expected remaining useful life: and customer relationships to have an expected economic life of 15 years, The relevant discount rates applied to the valuation of the based on the typical longevity of customer relationships within identified intangible assets in both Smiths Gore and SEB.
In doing so, we ascertained the extent of change that would be required Management identified institutional customer relationships as the for the fair value to be materially misstated and determined that the separately identifiable intangible asset on acquisition of SEB, with a evidence was that such changes were not sufficiently possible.
carrying value of 0.9m at 31 December 2015.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 75
