Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2015 2.3 Consolidation 1.
General information The consolidated financial statements include those of the Company Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of is aglobal real estate services Group.
The Group operates through results of its associates and joint ventures.
anetwork of offices in the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is listed on the London Stock a Subsidiaries Exchange and employs 30,696 staff worldwide.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has The Company is apublic limited company incorporated and rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by control ceases.
the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016.
The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to account 2.
Accounting policies for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these acquisition of asubsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
liability resulting from acontingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 2.1 Basis of preparation assumed in abusiness combination are measured initially at their fair These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any nonInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS controlling interest in the acquiree on an  Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by the basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on agoing concern basis and Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving ahigher degree of remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates within equity.
are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and 2.2 Use of non-GAAP measures losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share provides subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure additional useful information to shareholders on the underlying trends consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
and comparable performance of the Group over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, arrangements for employees.
These terms are not defined terms less any provision for impairment.
under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended b Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change to be asubstitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software : relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to profit-related performance compensation subject to deferral and non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
the opportunity cash cost of such compensation refer to Note 8 and Note 14.2 for further explanation : c Disposal of subsidiaries items that are considered non-operational in nature including When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the restructuring costs, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, and investments and profits or losses arising on disposals of subsidiaries and other investments: and with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
significant acquisition costs related to business combinations.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, 86 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
