Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for litigation on valuations In order to assess the accuracy and completeness of the provisions Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 90 and 96 held at the balance sheet date we performed the following procedures: Significant Accounting Policies and page 123 notes.
Obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in the normal course of third-party documentation received by the Group: business, particularly with respect to valuations performed in the height Obtained and read the legal insurance contract, and verified that of the property market in 2007.
Experience has shown that valuations the terms were appropriately accounted for: performed around this time were more subject to challenge than in other Met with the Groups internal and external counsel to consider in periods.
The number of new claims has continued to decline in recent detail a number of the cases, including the potential exposure years, particularly in respect of UK valuations.
after taking into account the Groups insurance cover: Checked the amounts and other details in respect of each new Our audit procedures took into account both the potential exposure and claim to the relevant third-party supporting documentation: the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, as well as the Reviewed the legal cases settled during the year and traced the adequacy of the insurance cover held by the Group.
related cash payments to bank statements: and There is also the risk that legal exposures may arise for which adequate Examined Board minutes, legal expenses incurred during the provisions are not held.
year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
We determined based on these procedures that management had made reasonable judgements in their assessment process, taking into account developments since the height of the property market.
Our procedures did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Recoverability of trade receivables in Asia In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables in China, we Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report and page 89 Significant performed the following procedures: Accounting Policies.
Requested confirmations for a sample of client debtor balances.
It is customary for clients to demand lengthy payment terms in parts of Where a response to our request was not received, we sought to Asia and particularly China.
Agreed payment terms are also sometimes agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post year end extended particularly when unforeseen delays occur in property cash receipts.
The Group is therefore exposed to a heightened risk of Where both a response and cash had not been received post default in respect of trade receivables in the Asia Pacific region, and this year-end, we performed alternative procedures, by agreeing increased risk is factored into our audit approach with respect to the amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and completion provision against trade receivables.
Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not yet paid with Savills local management teams.
We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated further provisioning against trade receivables was required.
We also evaluated the Groups credit control procedures in Asia, and assessed the aging profile on trade receivables, focusing on older debts for which no provision had been made.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer.
Based upon the above, we were satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgements that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
Regulatory compliance obligations We updated our understanding of the legal and regulatory framework The Directors did not record any material instances of non-compliance within which the Group operates, discussed the Groups approach to in the year, but the Group is subject to Financial Services, Chartered regulatory compliance with management internationally and with internal Surveyor, tax, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws and legal counsel, and evaluated managements internal control procedures.
regulations across a number of international jurisdictions.
We considered that appropriate procedures are in place to identify any Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations instances of non-compliance that would have a material impact on the could have a material impact on the results of the business and the results and reputation of the business.
reputation for integrity on which it relies.
We read relevant correspondence with regulators to support managements assertions, as well as Board minutes and internal audit reports.
We examined legal expense accounts and considered the results of our audit work in other areas to determine whether there appeared to be any evidence of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We identified no evidence of such instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
76 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
