Directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the page 44, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Group: and the Company and Group financial statements in accordance with the Strategic Report set out on pages 10 to 32 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the position of the Group, together with a description of the the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and For the purposes of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for the Directors as at the date of the approval of the Annual Report and that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Accounts confirms that: are required to: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit select suitable accounting policies and then apply them information of which the External Auditors are unaware: and consistently: the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of and prudent: any relevant audit information and to establish that the External state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Auditors are aware of that information.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis that the Company and the Group have adequate resources unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys On behalf of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to Jeremy Helsby ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Group Chief Executive report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Chris Lee also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Forward-looking statements Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the good faith using information up until the date on which they approved Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the Annual Report and Accounts.
Forward-looking statements preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from should be regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 9 March 2016 as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
72 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
