STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GROUP UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED Group Legal Entities wholly-owned Country of Incorporation Business Units Locations Senior Holdings LLC USA Senior Aerospace GmbH Switzerland Senior Investments GmbH Switzerland Senior IP GmbH Switzerland Flexonics, Inc. USA Senior Investments LLC USA Senior US Holdings Inc USA Upeca Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia Upeca Technologies Sdn Bhd Malaysia Upeca Equipment Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Malaysia Upeca Valve Automation Sdn Bhd Malaysia 1 Lymington Precision Engineering LPE Limited, together with its subsidiary Lymington Precision Engineers Co. Limited, was acquired on 31 March 2015.
2 Steico Industries, Inc. was acquired on 17 December 2015.
3 Senior Aerospace Composites was sold on 16 February 2016.
The Group has a 49% interest in Senior Flexonics Technologies Wuhan Limited, a jointly controlled entity incorporated in China.
Senior Aerospace and Flexonics Business Units in Mexico are operated by a third party under a contract manufacturing agreement.
Share Registrars All shareholder records are maintained by Equinti and all correspondence should be addressed to the Registrar, Senior plc at the Equniti address shown on the inside back cover, quoting the reference number starting with 0228 detailed on your dividend vouchers.
The registrar should be notified regarding changes to name or address, loss of share certificate, or request for, or change to, a dividend mandate.
Equiniti provides a range of shareholder information on-line.
Shareholders can check their holdings, update details and obtain practical help on transferring shares at: www.
Instead of payment by post to your registered address, dividends can be paid through the BACS system direct into a UK bank or building society account, with the dividend voucher still sent to your registered address.
If you wish to use this facility and have not previously applied, then please apply direct to Equiniti and request a dividend mandate form.
Shareholders who are currently receiving duplicate sets of Company mailings, as aresult of any inconsistency in name or address details, should write direct to Equiniti so holdings can be combined, if appropriate.
CREST proxy voting CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 April 2016 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
Further details relating to voting via CREST may be found on the 2016 AGM Notice of Meeting and Form of Proxy.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 123
