164 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting These financial statements on pages 159 to 235 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year.
Going Concern In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, and 375m of US private placements notes.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group has repaid 113m of the US private placement notes, which left 262m of notes outstanding.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had 855m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 777m.
Assessment of going concern The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into account financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities.
Review period In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2017.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 16 to 29 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
Assessment The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company together, the Group up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: i has the power over the investee: ii is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii has the ability to use its power to affect the returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profits or losses and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following changes to IFRS became effective in the current reporting period: Title Type Background Impact on Serco Annual Amendments Covers various matters: IFRS 1 is not relevant as IFRS have Improvements already been adopted.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of to IFRS: 2011 International Financial IFRS 3 changes relate to accounting 2013 Cycle Reporting Standards within joint arrangements themselves and are therefore not relevant.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 was amended to clarify the scope IAS 40 Investment Property of the portfolio exception, which is not applied in the Group financial statements.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, following IAS 40 is not relevant to Serco as no EU Adoption.
IFRIC 21 Levies New interpretation The interpretation was issued to clarify the No material levy payments are made timing of recognition of a levy payment, by the Group.
being a payment to a government for which no specific goods or services are received.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 166 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued New Standards and Interpretations not Applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following changes to IFRS have not been applied in these financial statements but could potentially have a significant impact: Title Type Status Background Impact on Serco IFRS 9 New Pending EU The standard replaces IAS 39 and IFRS 9 will impact both the Financial standard endorsement, introduces new requirements for measurement and disclosures of Instruments expected prior to classifying and measuring financial financial instruments and the total the effective date instruments and puts in place a value of financial instruments at of 1 January 2018 new hedge accounting model 31December 2015 was 545.9m of that is designed to be more closely assets 2014: 354.0m and 521.7m aligned with how entities undertake of liabilities 2014: 941.3m, further risk management activities when detail of which can be seen in note 33. hedging financial and non-financial However, it is not practicable to provide risk exposures.
a reasonable estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
IFRS 15 New Pending EU The new standard supersedes all The new revenue standard could result Revenue standard endorsement, of the following: in a delay of revenues and profits expected prior to over those previously recognised, in IAS 11 Construction contracts: the effective date particular with respect of percentage of 1 January 2018 IAS 18 Revenue: of completion accounting and where elements of revenues associated with IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty transition activities also referred to as programmes: 'phase in' have been recognised in the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the early stages of contracts.
An ongoing construction of real estate: project is being undertaken to assess IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets the full impact of the new standard but from customers: and we are unable to provide the quantum SIC-31 Revenue Barter of any such impact at this time.
transactions involving It is not anticipated that the standard advertising services.
will be adopted early, which would be permitted on endorsement by the EU.
The new standard is intended to bring greater transparency and comparability to financial reporting.
IFRS 16 New Pending EU The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases The key change will be in respect of Leases standard endorsement, and has been introduced in order to leases currently classified as operating expected prior to improve the comparability of financial leases.
Under the new standard leases the effective date statements through developing an will be recognised on the balance of 1 January 2019 approach that is more consistent with sheet as liabilities with corresponding the conceptual framework definitions assets being created, grossing up the of assets and liabilities.
balance sheet but with no net effect on net assets at the start of the lease.
The income statement impact will be a new interest charge arising from the rate implicit in the liability and as currently the full impact is a charge to operating profit, the change will result in an improvement to operating results.
We have not assessed the likely impact of the new standard, nor concluded whether it will be adopted early which is allowed from the date IFRS 15 is adopted.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 167 In addition to the items detailed above, the changes to IFRS listed below have not been applied in these financial statements and the Directors do not expect that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Title Type Status Background Annual Amendments Endorsed 17 December The amendments cover various matters: Improvements 2014.
Effective for annual IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment to IFRS: periods beginning on or 20102012 after 1 February 2015 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures cycle IAS 38 Intangible Assets IFRS 2 Share based Payment IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Annual Amendments Endorsed 15 December The amendments cover various matters: Improvements 2015.
Effective for annual IAS 19 Employee Benefits to IFRS: 2012 periods beginning on or 2014 cycle after 1 January 2016 IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IAS 1 Amendment Endorsed 18 December The changes are made as part of the disclosure initiative and Presentation 2015.
Effective for annual make certain points of clarification, particularly that: of Financial periods beginning on or D isclosures are only required for material matters.
Statements after 1 January 2016 I tems in the statement of other comprehensive income for equity accounted entities should be presented as single items based on whether or not they will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss or not.
P rimary financial statement line items can be disaggregated or aggregated as relevant.
IAS 12 Amendment Pending EU endorsement, The amendments clarify that unrealised losses on debt Income Taxes expected prior to the instruments measured at fair value in the financial statements effective date of but at cost for tax purposes can give rise to deductible 1 January 2017 temporary differences.
IAS 16 Amendment Endorsed 2 December Clarification is made of acceptable methods of depreciation Property, 2015.
Effective for annual and amortisation, including the prohibition of revenue based Plant and periods beginning on depreciation and limiting the use of revenue based amortisation.
Equipment or after 1 January 2016 and IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 19 Amendment Endorsed 17 December Clarification provided on accounting for employee contributions Employee 2014.
Effective for annual set out in the formal terms of a defined benefit plan.
Benefits periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015 IFRS 11 Joint Amendment Endorsed 24 November The accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations Arrangements 2015.
Effective for annual has been amended to follow the normal business combination periods beginning on or accounting for acquisitions.
after 1 January 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 168 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Fair Value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is estimated using another valuation technique.
There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards.
These are share based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 Share based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 Leases, or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS 2 Inventories or value in use under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Calculating the fair value of revenue typically does not require a significant level of judgement, the exceptions to this are the following areas further detail of which is provided in note 3 : Uncontracted variations or claims.
Revenue is deferred when payment is received in advance of performing the related service or delivering the associated goods, and released when the relevant contractual commitment is fulfilled.
Revenue Recognition: Repeat Service-based Contracts Revenue on repeat service-based contracts is recognised as services are provided.
Where initial contract costs phase in costs are paid for by the customer, revenue is recognised when the related costs are incurred.
Revenue Recognition: Long-Term Project-based Contracts The Group has a number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long-term project-based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, but where a more accurate basis is available that alternative methodology is used.
Contract costs include a rational allocation of overheads.
Where the outcome of a long-term project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Such amounts are not discounted.
Revenue Recognition: Other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Bid Costs and Phase In Costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain, being the point at which the Group has at least reached preferred bidder status.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Bid costs are only capitalised to the extent that it is expected that the related contract will generate sufficient future economic benefits to at least offset the amortisation charge.
Phase in costs that are incremental and directly related to the initial set-up of contracts are capitalised within trade and other receivables and are recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the contract, except where they are specifically reimbursed as part of the terms of the contract when they are recognised as revenue.
Determining whether bid and phase in costs are recoverable involves a high level of judgement as it requires a forecast to be prepared for the expected future profitability of the contract, taking into account the likely future costs and revenues associated with the services not yet performed.
The level of bid and phase in costs can be seen in note 24 and further detail of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Foreign Currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Assets Classified as Held For Sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the Group expects the sale to be completed within one year.
Amounts classified as held for sale are measured as the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Assessing whether the criteria are met requires judgement, in particular with regards to whether the subject of the assessment is in a suitable condition for sale.
In addition, the calculation of the value of any goodwill to be allocated to the sale is dependent on an assessment of the likely sales proceeds and the likely structure of the transaction.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 170 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Investments in Joint Ventures A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group's share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate or joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where the Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Determining whether joint control exists requires a level of judgement, based upon specific facts and circumstances which exist at the year end.
Details of the unconsolidated joint ventures are provided in notes 6 and 7.
Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Where part of a CGU with goodwill is sold, the attributable amount is calculated based on the future discounted cash flows leaving the Group as a proportion of the total CGU future discounted cash flows.
The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisers and any amount of consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internal forecasts.
There were no material acquisitions in the current or prior year.
Other Intangible Assets Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date of completion.
Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent the incremental value expected to be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business.
These assets are amortised over the average length of the related contracts.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Group in order to generate future economic value through normal business operations.
The underlying assets are amortised over the period from which the Group expects to benefit, which is typically between three to eight years.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The period of expected benefit, and therefore period of amortisation, is typically between three and eight years.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 171 While customer relationship and licence assets will arise from specific transactions and can be clearly identified, both software and development type assets can include a significant level of internal costs and determining whether these are directly incremental to the creation of the specific asset requires a high level of judgement further detail of which is provided in note 3.
Property, Plant and Equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short leasehold assets The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15% 20% Motor vehicles 10% 50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20% 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Given that there is limited history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the depreciation rates is not considered to be significant.
Asset Impairment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets including goodwill at each reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
As the impairment of assets has been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in note 3.
If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there is any impairment loss.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying amount is impaired to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses and reversals are recognised immediately within administrative expenses within the income statement unless it is considered to be an exceptional item.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 172 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense associated with the individuals.
Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive it and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Group, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Calculation of the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in note 3.
Defined Benefit Obligations Arising from Contractual Obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the estimated amount of scheme deficit that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Multi-employer Pension Schemes Multi-employer pension schemes are classified as either a defined contribution pension scheme or a defined benefit pension scheme under the terms of the scheme.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 33.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 33.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Fair Value Hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 174 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Share based Payment The Group makes equity-settled share based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 38.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost being the same as fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure that amounts recognised represent the recoverable amount.
A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due, which is achieved by creating an allowance for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information available at each reporting date.
Key indicators of impairment include disputes with customers over commercial positions, or where debtors have significant financial difficulties such as historic default of payments or information that suggests bankruptcy or financial reorganisation are a reasonable possibility.
The majority of contracts entered into by the Group are with government organisations or are blue chip private sector companies and therefore historic levels of default are relatively low and as a result the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be significant.
When a trade receivable is expected to be uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date when settlement is considered to be likely.
Onerous contract provisions OCPs arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the remuneration expected to be received.
Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational allocation of shared costs that can be directly linked to fulfilling contractual obligations which have been systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is used as a proxy to activity.
The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an early exit and the expected loss over the remaining contract period.
Where a customer has an option to extend a contract and it is likely that such an extension will be made, any loss expected to be made during the extension period, is included within the calculation.
However, where a profit can be reasonably expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.
Further details of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Net Investments in Foreign Operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends Payable Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Segmental Information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Board of Directors as a body.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the CODM.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 176 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As described below, many of these areas of judgement also involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.
Provisions for Onerous Contracts Determining whether provisions are required for loss making contracts requires significant judgements to be made regarding the ability of the company to maintain or improve operational performance.
Judgements can also be made regarding the outcome of matters dependent on the behaviour of the customer in question or other parties involved in delivering the contract.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates made, either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery.
In the current year material revisions have been made to historic provisions, which have led to a charge to contract provisions of 89.1m excluding 12.8m in respect of businesses held for sale and releases of 93.0m excluding 1.3m in respect of businesses held for sale.
All of these revisions have resulted from triggering events in the current year, either through changes in contractual positions or changes in circumstances which could not have been reasonably foreseen at the previous balance sheet date.
To mitigate the level of uncertainty is making these estimates Management regularly compares actual performance of the contracts against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.
A detailed bottom up review of the provisions is performed as part of the Groups formal annual budgeting process.
Impairment of Assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our business and any significant changes to the markets in which we operate.
The total value of assets which are covered by this assessment process after previous impairments is 1,255.0m 2014: 1,252.9m, which is the maximum exposure related to this judgement.
We mitigate the risk associated with this judgement by putting in place processes and guidance for the finance community and internal review procedures.
Determining whether assets with impairment indicators require an actual impairment involves an estimation of the expected value in use of the asset or CGU to which the asset relates.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of future cash flows and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, both of which involve considerable judgement.
The future cash flows are derived from approved forecasts, with the key assumptions being revenue growth, margins and cash conversion rates.
Discount rates are calculated with reference to the specific risks associated with the assets and are based on advice provided by external experts.
Our calculation of discount rates are performed based on a risk free rate of interest appropriate to the geographic location of the cash flows related to the asset being tested, which is subsequently adjusted to factor in local market risks and risks specific to Serco and the asset itself.
Discount rates used for internal purposes are post tax rates, however for the purpose of impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets we calculate a pre tax rate based on post tax targets.
During the year, goodwill associated with the Americas CGU was determined to be impaired, resulting in an exceptional charge in respect of continuing operations of 87.5m 2014: three CGUs impaired resulting in charges of 182.2m.
In addition, a charge of 9.0m 2014: 32.4m was recognised in respect of certain intangible assets.
A charge of 2.0m 2014: 36.7m was recognised in respect of certain items of property, plant and equipment and a credit of 6.8m 2014: charge of 17.4m was recognised in respect of billed receivables.
Valuation of Assets Held for Sale Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and up to the point a sales price has been formally agreed a level of judgement is required in assessing the value of these assets.
All assets included as held for sale are based on the latest offer received which is likely to be acceptable to us and the customer of the affected contract, but unforeseen events may lead to a change in this price prior to completion of the transaction.
The total value of assets held for sale is 7.3m 2014: 344.8m which is stated after an impairment charge for the year of 72.4m 2014: 39.2m, which corresponded to 65.9m in relation to goodwill and 6.5m for other assets 2014: all other assets.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Revenue and Recognition Calculating the fair value of the Groups revenue typically does not require a significant level of judgement, the exceptions to this are the following areas: Uncontracted variations or claims.
Where work has been performed outside of the normal contracting framework at the request of the customer or a claim has been made for work performed but in a dispute, judgement is required in order to determine whether there is sufficient certainty that the Group will be financially compensated.
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that they have been orally agreed by the customer or are virtually certain of being received.
When returns are directly linked to performance through cost savings or other customer driven key performance indicators over a period of time an estimate is made of the likelihood of achieving the necessary level of performance when the period covers a financial year end.
Revenue is only recognised when we can be reasonably certain of achieving the required level of performance.
Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long-term project-based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
The assessment of the stage of completion requires the exercise of judgement and is measured by the proportion of costs incurred to estimated whole-life contract costs, except where whole life contract costs exceed the contract value, in which case the excess is expensed immediately.
Separation of Income Statement Items from Underlying Results IAS 1 requires material items to be disclosed separately in a way that enables users to assess the quality of a company's profitability.
In practice, these are commonly referred to as 'exceptional' items, but this is not a concept defined by IFRS and therefore there is a level of judgement involved in determining what to include in underlying profit.
We consider items which are material, non-recurring and outside of the normal operating practice of the company to be suitable for separate presentation.
Retirement Benefit Obligations The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, mortality rates, inflation rates and future contribution rates see note 34.
The value of net retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is an asset of 115.6m 2014: 126.5m.
Details of the impact of changes in assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations are disclosed in note 34.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 178 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Discontinued operations Following the transfer of the public sector Business Process Outsourcing BPO operations to the UK and Europe Local and Regional Government division in 2014, the Global Services division represented only onshore and offshore private sector BPO operations.
While the exit of the whole of the private sector BPO operations had been planned and announced in 2014, certain UK onshore contracts were planned to be exited early rather than be sold and therefore it was not appropriate to treat these operations as discontinued in 2014.
On 16 September 2015 the disposal of the offshore private sector BPO operations was agreed and completion of the sale of the majority of these operations occurred on 31 December 2015.
The disposal of the remaining offshore business to the same purchaser is expected to complete in 2016 following receipt of the necessary regulatory approval and the balance sheet items associated with these operations remain within items held for sale at 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December the net assets relating to the remaining element, being the operations based in the Middle East, were equal to the expected consideration in respect of the disposal of 15.0m.
During the course of 2015 the UK onshore private sector BPO businesses have either been sold, are planned to be sold, or have been exited early and as a result the Global Services division is deemed to be a discontinued operation.
Those UK onshore BPO businesses which have not yet been sold are also treated as held for sale.
The decision to exit these operations is a core element of the strategy to focus Serco on being a leading supplier of public services.
This not only strengthens the balance sheet position but also enables the Group to focus on the five core markets.
The results of the discontinued operations were as follows: 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December m m Revenue 337.6 359.3 Expenses 311.1 388.3 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 26.5 29.0 Exceptional gain loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 5.4 3.1 Other exceptional operating items 83.0 332.7 Operating loss 51.1 364.8 Investment revenue 2.1 1.6 Finance costs 1.2 0.3 Loss before tax 50.2 363.5 Tax charge on profit loss before exceptional items 18.7 3.9 Tax credit on exceptional items 2.7 9.8 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations presented in the income statement 66.2 357.6 Attributable to: Equity owners of the Company 66.0 357.3 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.3 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Included above are items classified as exceptional as they are considered to be material, non recurring and outside of the normal course of business.
These are summarised as follows: 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December m m Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations Loss on disposal of discontinued operations prior to reserve recycling 45.6 3.1 Recycling of gains in hedging and translation reserves 51.0 Exceptional gain loss on disposal 5.4 3.1 Other exceptional operating items Restructuring costs 2.2 8.7 Impairment of goodwill 65.9 284.8 Impairment of other assets transferred to held for sale 14.9 39.2 Other exceptional operating items 83.0 332.7 Exceptional operating items arising on discontinued operations 77.6 335.8 In 2015 a charge of 2.2m 2014: 8.7m has arisen in discontinued operations in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
This includes redundancy payments, provisions and other charges relating to the exit of the UK private sector BPO business, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
During 2015, an impairment test of the Global Services business was conducted based on a level 3 fair value measurement, with reference to offers received less costs of disposal.
The impairment testing identified a non-cash exceptional impairment of goodwill relating to discontinued operations of 65.9m 2014: 284.8m which was recorded at the half year.
Assets other than goodwill have also been impaired by a total of 14.9m 2014: 39.2m.
The impairment of goodwill relates primarily to the offshore Global Services business, the majority of which was disposed of on 31 December 2015, with the other asset impairments relating to the UK onshore business.
The net assets at the date of disposal of discontinued operations were: Offshore UK onshore m m Goodwill 156.7 Other intangible assets 30.4 Property, plant and equipment 35.1 0.8 Trade and other receivables 82.8 0.5 Deferred tax assets 9.1 Cash and cash equivalents 31.0 0.8 Trade and other payables 51.5 0.5 Obligations under finance leases 1.1 0.1 Provisions 16.8 4.9 Corporation tax liabilities 32.0 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities 5.1 Minority interest disposed 0.4 Net assets liabilities disposed 239.0 3.7 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 180 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Discontinued operations continued The loss on disposal of discontinued operations is calculated as follows: Offshore UK onshore Total m m m Cash consideration 212.8 1.6 211.2 Face value of Loan Note received 30.0 30.0 Gross consideration 242.8 1.6 241.2 Loan Note fair value adjustment 10.5 10.5 Indemnities provided 30.7 2.3 33.0 Net consideration 201.6 3.9 197.7 Less: Net assets liabilities disposed 239.0 3.7 235.3 Disposal related costs 7.5 0.5 8.0 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations prior to reserve recycling 44.9 0.7 45.6 Recycling of gains on translation of foreign operations 43.0 43.0 Recycling of gains on hedged derivative financial instruments from reserves 8.0 8.0 Exceptional gain loss on disposal 6.1 0.7 5.4 The recycling items relate to the cumulative gains taken through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
These are in respect of the historic movements in exchange differences on the net investment held in these overseas operations and fair value movements on the hedged foreign exchange derivatives closed out prior to completion.
The disposal has crystallised these gains previously recognised in reserves, resulting in their recognition in the income statement as an additive item to the normal losses made on disposal.
Offshore consideration includes 58.2m in respect of amounts owed by the disposed business to other parts of Serco which were settled by the purchaser at the point of completion.
The net cash inflow arising on disposal of discontinued operations and the impact on net debt is as follows: Offshore UK onshore Total m m m Cash consideration 212.8 1.6 211.2 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 31.0 0.8 31.8 Cash amounts on settlement of derivatives 7.0 7.0 Disposal related costs 3.7 0.1 3.8 Net cash flow on disposal 171.1 2.5 168.6 External debt disposed 1.1 0.1 1.2 Loan Note received 19.5 19.5 Movement in net debt 191.7 2.4 189.3 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 181 The net cash flows resulting from the discontinued operations were as follows: 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December m m Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 67.7 41.7 Exceptional items 1.5 3.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 66.2 38.4 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 93.5 4.7 Net cash outflow from financing activities 26.5 1.6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents attributable to discontinued operations 133.2 32.1 5.
Segmental Information The Groups operating segments reflecting the information reported to the Board in 2015 under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as set out below.
The only material change on the prior year is the Global Services segment being reclassified as a discontinued operation.
Reportable segments Operating segments UK Central Government Frontline services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration and Transport delivered to UK Government and devolved authorities: UK & Europe Local & Services for sectors including Health, Local Government Direct Services, Citizen Services and Regional Government BPO services delivered to UK & European public sector customers: Americas Professional, technology and management services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Citizen Services delivered to US federal and civilian agencies, selected state and municipal governments and the Canadian Government: AsPac Frontline services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services in the Asia Pacific region including Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong: Middle East Frontline services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Health in the Middle East region: and Corporate Central and head office costs.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Geographic Information Non-current Non-current Revenue assets Revenue assets 2015 2015 2014 2014 Year ended 31 December m m m m United Kingdom 1,529.2 259.2 1,789.4 464.7 United States 632.0 347.7 642.1 336.6 Australia 514.7 125.5 657.0 140.3 Middle East 291.3 16.2 260.4 14.6 Other countries 209.8 34.0 246.8 246.4 Total 3,177.0 782.6 3,595.7 1,202.6 Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and loans to joint ventures and include assets of 1.2m 2014: 405.4m reclassified as held for sale.
Revenues from external customers are attributed to individual countries on the basis of the location of the customer.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 182 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental Information continued Information about Major Customers The Group has two major governmental customers which each represent more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,480.9m 2014: 1,709.3m for the UK Government across UK Central Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional Government, and 558.5m 2014: 574.6m for the US Government within the Americas segment.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue, results, assets and liabilities by reportable segment: Middle CG LRG Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m m m m Revenue 742.1 905.8 693.0 544.7 291.4 3,177.0 Result Trading profit loss 60.2 14.5 27.0 58.8 27.4 47.9 111.0 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 1.1 2.5 1.2 4.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 60.2 15.6 24.5 57.6 27.4 47.9 106.2 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.5 0.3 2.6 0.8 2.6 Other exceptional operating items 0.2 1.7 87.5 1.3 1.8 14.8 107.3 Operating profit loss 60.5 17.0 63.0 53.7 25.6 63.5 3.7 Investment revenue 6.1 Finance costs 71.8 Loss before tax 69.4 Tax charge 17.5 Loss for the year from continuing operations 86.9 Trading profit loss is defined as operating loss profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Supplementary Information Share of profits in joint ventures, net of interest and tax 33.8 1.5 0.1 0.8 0.8 37.0 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 1.9 13.3 3.0 5.4 1.1 1.4 26.1 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 1.6 0.4 2.0 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 3.5 13.3 3.4 5.4 1.1 1.4 28.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.1 2.5 1.2 4.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.4 2.0 1.1 1.5 0.7 18.0 23.7 Impairment and write down of other intangible assets 9.0 9.0 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.4 12.1 3.6 2.7 0.7 18.0 37.5 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures 4.4 6.5 0.2 2.3 0.4 13.8 Other segment assets 126.0 202.2 473.6 235.0 100.7 218.9 1,356.4 Total segment assets 130.4 208.7 473.8 237.3 101.1 218.9 1,370.2 Unallocated assets, including assets held for sale 469.3 Consolidated total assets 1,839.5 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 104.3 130.8 63.7 109.3 60.0 135.4 603.5 Unallocated liabilities, including liabilities linked to assets held for sale 953.9 Consolidated total liabilities 1,557.4 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 183 Middle CG LRG Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Revenue 961.4 959.8 708.1 706.0 260.4 3,595.7 Result Trading loss profit 242.8 90.4 16.5 201.6 0.2 90.1 608.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 0.1 7.2 2.3 8.6 18.2 Operating loss profit before exceptional items 242.9 97.6 14.2 210.2 0.2 90.1 626.8 Exceptional loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 1.9 0.4 4.6 2.3 Other exceptional operating items 42.7 95.9 101.7 41.3 1.7 40.1 323.4 Operating loss 283.7 193.1 87.5 251.5 1.9 134.8 952.5 Investment revenue 4.6 Finance costs 42.6 Loss before tax 990.5 Tax credit 1.0 Loss for the year from continuing operations 989.5 Trading loss profit is defined as operating profit loss before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Supplementary Information Share of profits in joint ventures, net of interest and tax 29.6 1.2 0.1 0.9 30.0 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 10.9 13.1 2.5 6.4 0.8 0.7 34.4 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 17.5 1.8 12.9 4.5 36.7 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 28.4 14.9 2.5 19.3 0.8 5.2 71.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.1 1.6 2.3 2.2 6.2 Impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition 5.5 6.4 11.9 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1.5 14.2 1.5 1.3 0.9 5.5 24.9 Impairment and write down of other intangible assets 2.9 11.0 3.1 0.2 3.3 20.5 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 4.5 32.3 6.9 10.1 0.9 8.8 63.5 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures 7.0 5.0 0.2 3.0 0.4 1.6 Other segment assets 135.1 431.9 458.9 236.3 99.7 178.9 1,540.8 Total segment assets 128.1 436.9 459.1 239.3 100.1 178.9 1,542.4 Unallocated assets, including assets held for sale 681.5 Consolidated total assets 2,223.9 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 146.1 247.5 62.0 99.2 55.2 93.3 703.3 Unallocated liabilities, including liabilities linked to assets held for sale 1,586.8 Consolidated total liabilities 2,290.1 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 184 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
List of Principal Undertakings The following are considered to be the principal undertakings of the Group: Principal Subsidiaries 2015 2014 United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% 100% Australia Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% USA Serco Inc. 100% 100% Principal joint venture undertakings 2015 2014 United Kingdom AWE Management Limited 33% 33% Northern Rail Holdings Limited 50% 50% A full list of subsidiaries and related undertakings is included in the Appendix on pages 242 to 243 which form part of the financial statements.
Joint Ventures The Group has certain arrangements where control is shared equally with one or more parties.
As each arrangement is a separate legal entity and legal ownership and control are equal with all other parties, there are no significant judgements required to be made.
AWE Management Limited and Northern Rail Holdings Limited are the only joint ventures which are material to the Group.
Dividends of 17.8m 2014: 16.8m and 5.9m 2014: 8.9m respectively were received from these companies in the year.
Summarised financial information of AWE Management Limited and Northern Rail Holdings Limited, and an aggregation of the other joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, is as follows: 31 December 2015 Other joint AWE Northern venture Group Group portion Management Rail Holdings arrangements portion of of other Limited 100% Limited 100% 100% of material joint joint venture of results of results results ventures arrangements Total Summarised financial information m m m m m m Revenue 978.3 585.3 277.1 618.7 118.5 737.2 Operating profit 61.2 19.4 27.0 30.1 12.5 42.6 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.4 0.4 1.4 0.3 0.7 0.4 Income tax expense 5.9 3.5 3.8 3.7 1.5 5.2 Profit from continuing operations 55.7 16.3 21.8 26.7 10.3 37.0 Other comprehensive income 11.9 5.0 5.9 1.7 7.6 Total comprehensive income 55.7 28.2 26.8 32.6 12.0 44.6 Non-current assets 464.2 10.3 52.7 159.9 17.3 177.2 Current assets 358.8 97.2 85.6 168.2 35.7 203.9 Current liabilities 342.6 93.4 75.1 160.9 32.7 193.6 Non-current liabilities 461.7 3.8 52.3 155.8 17.9 173.7 Net assets 18.7 10.3 10.9 11.4 2.4 13.8 Proportion of group ownership 33% 50% Carrying amount of investment 6.2 5.2 2.5 11.4 2.4 13.8 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Other joint AWE Northern venture Group Group portion Management Rail Holdings arrangements portion of of other Limited 100% Limited 100% 100% of material joint joint venture of results of results results ventures arrangements Total Supplementary material m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 111.4 44.9 45.5 59.6 21.1 80.7 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 5.6 4.3 4.1 4.0 2.2 6.2 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 0.1 1.3 20.9 0.7 3.3 4.0 Depreciation and amortisation 4.6 5.9 2.2 2.3 4.5 Interest income 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.5 Interest expense 0.1 1.6 0.1 0.8 0.9 Total results of the joint ventures multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of Northern Rail Holdings Limited are for a period which is different from that of the Group, being for the 53 week period ended 9 January 2016.
The 53 week period reflects the joint ventures internal reporting structure and is sufficiently close so as to not require adjustment to match that of the Group.
Certain employees of the groups headed by AWE Management Limited and Northern Rail Holdings Limited are members of sponsored defined benefit pension schemes.
Given the significance of the schemes to understanding the position of the joint ventures the following key disclosures are made: AWE Northern Management Rail Holdings Main assumptions: 2015 Limited Limited Rate of salary increases % 2.2% 3.0% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.2% 2.1% Discount rate % 4.0% 3.9% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.7 N a Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 25.4 N a Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 1,649.6 918.3 Fair value of scheme assets 1,188.0 682.6 Net amount recognised 461.6 235.7 Members share of deficit 94.3 Franchise adjustments 141.3 Related asset, right to reimbursement 461.6 Net retirement benefit obligation 0.1 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
The Northern Rail defined benefit pension scheme uses a mortality rate multiplier of 96% based on the S1 normal males heavy table, adjusted for the geographic location of members.
AWE Management Limited is not liable for any deficiency in the defined benefit pension scheme under current contractual arrangements.
The deficit reflected in the financial statements of Northern Rail Holdings Limited covers only that portion of the deficit that is expected to be funded over the term of the franchise arrangement the entity operates under.
In addition, the defined benefit position reflects an adjustment in respect of funding required to be provided by employees.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 186 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Joint Ventures continued 31 December 2014 AWE Other joint Management Northern venture Group Group portion Limited Rail Holdings arrangements portion of of other Group 100% of Limited 100% 100% of material joint joint venture portion results of results results ventures arrangements Total Summarised financial information m m m m m m Revenue 989.3 577.5 397.0 618.5 179.8 798.3 Operating profit 54.9 17.7 23.8 27.2 10.7 37.9 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.3 0.4 1.4 0.3 0.6 0.3 Income tax expense 4.6 5.1 7.0 4.1 3.5 7.6 Profit from continuing operations 50.6 13.0 15.4 23.4 6.6 30.0 Other comprehensive income expense 0.8 4.3 0.4 2.3 1.9 Total comprehensive income 50.6 13.8 11.1 23.8 4.3 28.1 Non-current assets 583.7 10.5 44.9 199.8 18.1 217.9 Current assets 246.5 72.9 74.4 118.6 31.5 150.1 Current liabilities 230.1 83.5 65.7 118.4 29.4 147.8 Non-current liabilities 583.3 6.0 51.1 197.5 21.1 218.6 Net assets 16.8 6.1 2.5 2.5 0.9 1.6 Proportion of group ownership 33% 50% Carrying amount of investment 5.5 3.0 0.9 2.5 0.9 1.6 AWE Other joint Management Northern venture Group Group portion Limited Rail Holdings arrangements portion of of other Group 100% of Limited 100% 100% of material joint joint venture portion results of results results ventures arrangements Total Supplementary material m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 106.1 33.5 41.0 52.1 19.1 71.2 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 2.2 10.3 3.6 5.9 1.8 7.7 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 2.3 16.0 1.2 4.2 5.4 Depreciation and amortisation 4.3 6.4 2.2 2.6 4.8 Interest income 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.5 Interest expense 0.1 1.7 0.1 0.7 0.8 Total results of the joint ventures multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of Northern Rail Holdings Limited are for the 52 week period ended 3 January 2015.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Key disclosures with respect of the defined benefit pension schemes of material joint ventures: AWE Northern Management Rail Holdings Main assumptions: 2014 Limited Limited Rate of salary increases % 3.0% 3.0% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.1% 2.1% Discount rate % 3.8% 3.7% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.9 N a Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 24.6 N a Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 1,708.7 902.9 Fair value of scheme assets 1,125.6 640.6 Net amount recognised 583.1 262.3 Members share of deficit 104.9 Franchise adjustments 156.0 Related asset, right to reimbursement 583.1 Net retirement benefit obligation 1.4 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
The Northern Rail defined benefit pension scheme uses a mortality rate multiplier of 98% based on the S1 normal males heavy table, adjusted for the geographic location of members.
Acquisitions Deferred consideration payments of 0.2m were made in the period in relation to the prior year acquisition of MENA Business Services LLC, which is part of discontinued operations.
In addition, the fair value of deferred contingent consideration on this acquisition was finalised, resulting in a reduction of the provisional goodwill of 1.6m.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 188 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Disposals Disposals relating to discontinued operations are included in Note 4.
In May 2015 the Group completed the sale of its Great Southern Rail GSR business in Australia for a cash consideration of 2.9m, resulting in a loss on disposal of 2.8m.
The transaction is part of the disposal programme of businesses identified as not being core to Serco's future strategy, as announced initially in November 2014.
In addition, in January 2015, the Group disposed of its National Physical Laboratory NPL business for a consideration of 12.1m, with no gain or loss on disposal.
AgPlus was a subsidiary of NPL which was retained and sold separately with a gain of 0.5m recognised.
All of these businesses were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2014.
In June 2015, the Group also disposed of its Serco India Private Limited business, representing the Groups frontline public services operations in the Indian transport sector, for a consideration of 1.0m, resulting in a loss on disposal of 0.8m.
Details of these transactions are given below: Great National Southern Physical Rail Laboratory Other Total Total 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 The net assets at the date of disposal were: m m m m m Goodwill 3.4 Other intangible assets 0.2 Property, plant and equipment 0.9 25.4 26.3 0.2 Deferred tax assets 1.1 1.1 Current tax assets 0.9 0.9 Inventories 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables 9.7 13.9 0.8 24.4 6.3 Cash and cash equivalents 7.3 10.6 0.4 18.3 1.0 Trade and other payables 14.2 14.9 29.1 1.8 Tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 0.1 Non recourse loans 24.0 24.0 Other loans 0.1 0.1 Provisions 0.7 0.7 Net assets disposed 4.2 12.1 1.6 17.9 9.2 The loss profit on disposal is calculated as follows: Cash consideration 2.9 12.1 1.4 16.4 6.3 Less: Net assets disposed 4.2 12.1 1.6 17.9 9.2 Non-controlling interest dispose of 0.4 0.4 Impairment of loan receivable in respect of prior year disposal 4.6 Disposal related costs 1.5 1.5 5.2 Loss profit on disposal 2.8 0.2 2.6 2.3 The net cash inflow outflow arising on disposals is as follows: Consideration received 2.9 12.1 1.4 16.4 8.3 Less: Deferred consideration 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 7.3 10.6 0.4 18.3 1.0 Disposal related costs paid during the period 1.1 1.1 2.3 Net cash outflow inflow on disposal 5.5 1.5 1.0 3.0 5.5 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 189 10.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Rendering of services 3,141.2 3,564.6 Revenue from long-term project based contracts 35.8 31.1 Revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 3,177.0 3,595.7 Investment revenue note 14 6.1 4.6 Operating lease income 0.8 0.3 Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 3,183.9 3,600.6 11.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are non recurring items of financial performance that are outside normal operations and are material to the results of the Group either by virtue of size or nature.
As such, the items set out below require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
In the year exceptional items have arisen on both the continuing and discontinued operations of the Group.
Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within the loss attributable to discontinued operations, those arising on continuing operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within exceptional operating items.
Further information regarding the exceptional items arising on discontinued operations can be seen in note 4.
Net loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations The exceptional net loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations is included in note 9.
Other Exceptional Operating Items arising on continuing operations 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December m m Impairment of goodwill 87.5 181.2 Restructuring costs 19.7 24.0 Aborted transaction costs 1.7 Costs associated with UK Government review 1.2 9.2 UK frontline clinical health contract provisions 2.8 16.1 Provision for settlement relating to DLR pension deficit funding dispute 35.6 Other provision for legal claims 20.1 Impairment and related charges of Australian rail business 37.2 Other exceptional operating items 107.3 323.4 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that there is a risk that it could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each cash generating unit CGU is based on value in use calculations derived from forecast cash flows based on past experience, adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, the Groups strategy and key risks.
These forecasts include an estimated level of new business wins and contract attrition and an assumption that the final year forecast continues into perpetuity at a CGU-specific terminal growth rate.
The terminal growth rates are provided by external sources and are based on the long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 190 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Exceptional Items continued In 2015, we conducted impairment testing of our CGUs that has identified a non-cash exceptional impairment to continuing operations of 87.5m 2014: 181.2m, due primarily to a higher level of contract attrition than previously forecast and the associated impact on future cash flows.
This arose in the Americas CGU in the current year, which is also a reportable segment as defined in IFRS8.
In the prior year, impairments arose in the Direct Services & Europe business and UK Health operations, both of which form part of the UK Local & Regional Government segment.
2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m UK Local & Regional Government: Direct Services & Europe 57.6 UK Local & Regional Government: UK Health 22.9 Americas 87.5 100.7 Total exceptional goodwill impairment charge 87.5 181.2 In 2015, a charge of 19.7m 2014: 24.0m arose in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
This included redundancy payments, provisions, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
The disposal of the Environmental and Leisure businesses were aborted in the year and as a result one-off costs of 1.7m associated with the aborted sale have been treated as exceptional.
In 2014 there were exceptional costs totalling 9.2m associated with the UK Government reviews and the programme of Corporate Renewal.
This reflected external costs related to these reviews and the Corporate Renewal Programme.
In 2015, 1.2m of external adviser costs arose from dealing with these historical matters.
In 2015 the exit of the UK Frontline Clinical Health contracts was completed with the Cornwall Out of Hours contract exited in May and the Suffolk Community Healthcare contract exited in September.
On completion of the contract exits, onerous contract provisions of 2.8m, for which the charges were recorded as exceptional costs and that are no longer expected to be utilised, were released as credits through exceptional items.
In November 2014 the Group agreed to settle a dispute with the Trustees of the Docklands Light Railway DLR Pension Scheme over the extent of its liability to fund the deficit on the scheme.
The settlement resulted in a total exceptional charge inclusive of costs of 35.6m, consisting of the full and final settlement amount of 33.0m and costs of 2.6m.
The settlement is to be paid over four equal annual instalments from January 2015 to January 2018 covering all past and any future DLR associated pension liabilities.
In 2014 an exceptional provision of 20.1m was recognised for legal claims made against Serco for commercial disputes.
This provision was based on legal advice received by the Company.
There have been no further charges in 2015 in relation to these disputes.
In 2014 an impairment review was performed on the Australian rail business, Great Southern Rail GSR, resulting in a charge totalling 37.2m.
This consisted of an impairment of 23.1m to reduce the carrying value of its net assets to the estimated recoverable amount and a charge of 14.1m in relation to the break costs of leases relating to the business.
The GSR business was exited in May 2015, with the loss on disposal included within loss on disposal of businesses.
Exceptional Finance Costs In December 2014, agreement was reached for the Group to defer its December 2014 covenant test until 31 May 2015.
As a result, costs were incurred in 2015 to preserve the existing finance facilities.
In addition, payments were made to the US Private Placement USPP Noteholders as a result of early settlement following the Group refinancing.
Total charges of 32.8m have been treated as exceptional items as they are outside of the normal financing arrangements of the Group and are significant in size.
Tax Impact of above Items The tax impact of these exceptional items was a tax credit of 0.4m 2014: 8.2m.
Further details are provided in note 16.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 191 12.
Operating Profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Research and development costs 4.3 21.5 Exceptional goodwill impairment note 11 87.5 181.2 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.5 1.0 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1.7 0.2 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 28.1 71.1 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition 4.8 18.1 Amortisation, write down and impairment of intangible assets other 32.7 45.4 Exceptional net loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations note 9 2.6 2.3 Staff costs note 13 1,532.2 1,672.0 Allowance for doubtful debts credited charged to income statement 6.8 17.4 Net foreign exchange charge 21.0 31.6 Movement on non-designated hedges and reclassified cash flow hedges 20.7 42.0 Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 104.4 123.8 Operating lease income from sub-leases note 10 0.8 0.3 Included within 2014 general and administrative expenses on the face of the consolidated income statement were charges in relation to non-OCP items arising from the 2014 Contract and Balance Sheet review.
In 2015, there was a credit of 17.5m, relating primarily to the release of accruals and other provisions where liabilities have either been settled for less than the amounts provided or accrued, or have lapsed due to the passage of time.
Amounts payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services are shown below.
2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.9 1.3 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.8 Total audit fees 1.5 2.1 Auditrelated assurance services 0.2 0.2 Other taxation advisory services 0.2 0.4 Other services 2.6 0.2 Total non-audit fees 3.0 0.8 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed separately because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 112.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 192 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Staff Costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2014 2015 Restated Year ended 31 December Number Number UK Central Government 10,182 11,555 Local & Regional Government 11,357 11,799 Americas 9,727 9,479 AsPac 8,885 7,125 Middle East 3,996 3,406 Global Services 48,169 46,733 Private Sector 3,052 4,260 Unallocated 1,094 1,098 96,462 95,455 restated to reflect new reportable segments adopted in 2015 relates to discontinued operations Aggregate remuneration comprised: 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Wages and salaries 1,337.5 1,444.1 Social security costs 100.7 117.3 Other pension costs note 34 85.1 106.3 1,523.3 1,667.7 Share based payment expense note 38 8.9 4.3 1,532.2 1,672.0 14.
Investment Revenue 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Interest receivable on other loans and deposits 1.1 1.5 Net interest receivable on retirement benefit obligations note 34 4.9 3.1 Movement in discount on other debtors 0.1 6.1 4.6 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 193 15.
Finance Costs 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Interest payable on non recourse loans 0.8 Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 2.5 2.9 Interest payable on other loans 24.7 29.4 Facility fees and other charges 6.2 9.5 Movement in discount on provisions 5.6 39.0 42.6 16.
Tax 16 a Income Tax Recognised in the Income Statement Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Continuing operations m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 4.5 0.4 4.1 41.4 41.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.0 6.0 15.9 15.9 Deferred tax Current year charge credit 12.7 12.7 32.7 8.2 40.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.3 5.3 14.4 14.4 17.9 0.4 17.5 7.2 8.2 1.0 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the consolidated income statement as follows: Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Profit loss before tax 73.3 142.7 69.4 664.8 325.7 990.5 Tax calculated at a rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 14.9 28.9 14.0 142.9 70.1 213.0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6.7 0.2 6.5 40.5 47.5 88.0 UK unprovided deferred tax 17.4 3.6 21.0 102.9 17.9 120.8 Other unprovided deferred tax 15.0 24.9 9.9 28.2 0.4 28.6 Overseas rate differences 3.2 0.2 3.4 13.1 3.9 17.0 UK Branch exemption 2.7 2.7 0.5 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 0.7 1.5 1.5 Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 7.3 7.3 6.4 6.4 Tax charge credit 17.9 0.4 17.5 7.2 8.2 1.0 The income tax charge credit for the year is based on the blended UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 194 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Tax continued 16 b Income Tax Recognised in the SOCI 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Current tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 0.1 0.6 Deferred tax Relating to cash flow hedges Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 4.0 13.5 4.1 12.9 16 c Tax on Items Taken Directly to Equity 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Current tax Recorded in share based payment reserve Deferred tax Recorded in share based payment reserve 0.4 0.4 17.
Deferred Tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using local substantively enacted tax rates.
The movement in net deferred tax assets during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January asset 28.2 23.5 Income statement credit note 16 3.7 30.3 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 16 4.2 13.9 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 5.5 Exchange differences 3.3 3.2 Reclassified to assets held for sale 8.5 At 31 December asset 19.9 28.2 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 195 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows: Temporary Share based differences payment and Retirement Derivative Other on assets employee benefit financial Tax temporary intangibles benefits schemes instruments losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 7.5 9.5 21.7 10.7 37.2 28.2 Credited charged to income statement note 16a 17.3 0.5 0.3 0.1 13.3 3.7 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 16b&c 4.2 4.2 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 5.5 5.5 Exchange differences 2.0 0.3 1.0 3.3 At 31 December 2015 26.8 9.7 17.8 10.8 44.0 19.9 Of the amount credited to the income statement, 0.3m has been taken to costs of sales in respect of the R&D Expenditure credit.
Other temporary differences comprise mainly of onerous contract provisions which at 31 December 2015 amount to 28.3m 2014: 30.5m.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the previous year was as follows: Temporary Share based Derivative differences payment and Retirement financial Other on assets employee benefit instruments Tax temporary intangibles benefits schemes restated losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 8.6 9.4 6.9 15.0 25.2 10.6 23.5 Credited charged to income statement note 16a 1.9 1.4 0.5 6.3 15.4 49.2 30.3 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 16b&c 0.4 14.4 0.9 13.9 Exchange differences 1.6 0.1 0.2 1.9 3.2 Reclassified to assets held for sale 0.8 1.0 0.1 8.7 0.5 8.5 At 31 December 2014 7.5 9.5 21.7 10.7 37.2 28.2 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liabilities 22.3 9.2 Deferred tax assets 42.2 37.4 19.9 28.2 The total deferred tax asset held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amounted to 42.2m 2014: 48.4m The total deferred tax liability held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amounted to 22.3m 2014: 11.7m.
Amounts held for sale on the balance sheet include nil in respect of deferred tax assets 2014: 11.0m and deferred tax liabilities 2014: 2.5m.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 196 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Deferred Tax continued As at 31 December 2015 the Group has a gross unrecognised deferred tax asset of 1.05bn.
The group has unused tax losses excluding assets held for sale of 890.1m 2014: 647.0m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 59.9m 2014: 53.5m of such losses, of which 58.3m net 10.5m relates to losses incurred in the UK and 1.6m net 0.3m relates to other jurisdictions.
Recognition has been based on forecast future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses net 153.2m as there are expected to be insufficient taxable profits available.
Losses of 105.5m 2014: 0.9m expire within five years, losses of 0.2m 2014: nil expire within 610 years and losses of 784.4m 2014: 646.1m may be carried forward indefinitely.
In addition, as at the balance sheet date, the group has the following in relation to held for sale assets: Unused tax losses of 7.3m 2014: 51.6 available for offset against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses net 1.3m as it is not probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
Losses of nil 2014: 20.7m expire within 5 years, losses of nil 2014 16.6m expire within 610 years, losses of nil 2014: 1.9m expire within 1115 years, losses of nil 2014: 12.4m expire within 1620 years and losses of 7.3m 2014: nil may be carried forward indefinitely.
Dividends 2015 2014 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of nil per share 2014: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.45p per share on 487.4 million ordinary shares 36.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of nil per share 2014: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 3.10p per share on 538.4 million ordinary shares 16.7 53.1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of nil per share 2014: nil per share A dividend waiver is effective for those shares held on behalf of the Company by its Employee Share Ownership Trust note 37.
Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share EPS have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2014 2015 restated Number of shares Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 986.5 655.1 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: share options Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 986.5 655.1 Restatement of earnings per share reflects adjustments associated with the Rights Issue At 31 December 2015 options over 560,060 2014 restated : 1,855,924 shares were excluded from the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted earnings per share because their exercise price was above the average share price for the year and they were, therefore, anti-dilutive.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 197 A further 26.5m shares are potentially dilutive but are not included in the above calculation due to the loss making position in the year.
Per share Earnings Per share Earnings per share Earnings amount 2014 amount Continuing and Discontinued 2015 2015 restated 2014 EPS m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 152.6 15.47 1,347.3 205.66 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Diluted EPS 152.6 15.47 1,347.3 205.66 Basic EPS Excluding Exceptional Items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 152.6 15.47 1,347.3 205.66 Add back exceptional operating items 220.3 22.33 661.5 100.98 Add back tax on exceptional items 3.1 0.31 18.0 2.75 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 64.6 6.55 703.8 107.43 Restatement of earnings per share reflects adjustments associated with the rights issue Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings per share Earnings amount 2014 2014 Continuing 2015 2015 restated restated EPS m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 86.6 8.78 990.0 151.12 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Diluted EPS 86.6 8.78 990.0 151.12 Basic EPS Excluding Exceptional Items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 86.6 8.78 990.0 151.12 Add back exceptional operating items 142.7 14.47 325.7 49.72 Add back tax on exceptional items 0.4 0.04 8.2 1.25 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 55.7 5.65 672.5 102.66 Restatement of earnings per share reflects adjustments associated with the rights issue Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings per share Earnings amount 2014 2014 Discontinued 2015 2015 restated restated EPS m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 66.0 6.69 357.3 54.54 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Diluted EPS 66.0 6.69 357.3 54.54 Basic EPS Excluding Exceptional Items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 66.0 6.69 357.3 54.54 Add back exceptional operating items 77.6 7.87 335.8 51.26 Add back tax on exceptional items 2.7 0.28 9.8 1.5 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 8.9 0.90 31.3 4.78 Restatement of earnings per share reflects adjustments associated with the rights issue Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 198 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Goodwill Accumulated impairment Carrying Cost losses amount m m m At 1 January 2014 1,270.8 1,270.8 Additions 4.4 4.4 Disposals 3.4 3.4 Exchange differences 20.2 5.4 14.8 Impairment exceptional 466.0 466.0 Transfer to held for sale 618.8 339.7 279.1 At 1 January 2015 673.2 131.7 541.5 Exchange differences 17.6 7.8 9.8 Impairment exceptional 87.5 87.5 Transfer from held for sale 108.3 62.2 46.1 At 31 December 2015 799.1 289.2 509.9 Further details of the exceptional impairment can be seen in note 11.
Movements in the balance since the prior year end can be seen as follows: Headroom Headroom Goodwill Transfer on on balance 31 Exchange from held Goodwill impairment impairment December Additions Disposals differences Impairment for sale balance analysis analysis 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 m m m m m m m m m UK Central Government Justice & Immigration 49.6 49.6 59.3 147.0 Local & Regional Government UK Health 60.6 60.6 2.3 Direct Services & Europe 18.5 0.9 46.1 63.7 83.5 Americas 303.6 15.9 87.5 232.0 AsPac 100.4 5.7 94.7 161.6 314.8 Middle East 8.8 0.5 9.3 134.2 136.5 541.5 9.8 87.5 46.1 509.9 440.9 598.3 Included above is the detail of the headroom on the CGUs existing at the year end.
For the Americas CGU impaired in the year, no headroom exists and therefore any reduction in forecasts or unfavourable movements in key assumptions would lead to an additional impairment.
Headroom shown in respect of the other CGUs reflects where future discounted cash flows are greater than the underlying assets and includes all relevant cash flows, including where provisions have been made for future costs and losses.
The increase in the Direct Services & Europe headroom partly reflects the impact of the decision that the Environmental and Leisure businesses no longer be sold, reflecting the fact that the expected proceeds on disposal were less than the expected future cash flows.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 199 The key assumptions applied in the impairment review are set out below: Terminal Terminal Discount Discount growth growth rate rate rates rates 2015 2014 2015 2014 % % % % UK Central Government Justice & Immigration 10.3 9.2 2.0 1.9 Local & Regional Government UK Health 10.1 9.7 2.0 1.9 Direct Services & Europe 10.1 9.7 2.0 1.9 Americas 10.3 11.3 2.4 2.0 AsPac 10.7 12.4 2.4 2.3 Middle East 9.7 9.0 2.1 2.2 The Americas discount rate for 2014 of 11.3% has been amended from 13.3% to correct a typographical error.
Discount Rate Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital have been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
These rates are reviewed annually with external advisers and are adjusted for risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
Short-term Growth Rates The annual impairment test is performed immediately prior to the year end, based initially on five year cash flow forecasts approved by senior management.
Short-term revenue growth rates used in each CGU five year plan are based on internal data regarding our current contracted position, the pipeline of opportunities and forecast growth for the relevant market.
Short-term profitability and cash conversion is based on our historic experiences and a level of judgement is applied to expected changes in both.
Where businesses have been poor performers in recent history, turnaround has only been assumed where a detailed and achievable plan is in place and all forecasts include cash flows relating to contracts where onerous contract provisions have been made.
Terminal Growth Rates The calculations include a terminal value based on the projections for the fifth year of the short-term plan, with a growth rate assumption applied which extrapolates the business into perpetuity.
The terminal growth rates are based on long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
These are provided by external sources.
Sensitivity Analysis Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption and the only CGUs impacted by a reasonably possible change in a key assumption are the Americas and Health.
A 2% movement in discount rates and a 1% movement in terminal growth rates are considered to be reasonably possible.
The impact of changes in key assumptions on CGUs with marginal headroom is as follows: Health: The CGU represents the UK healthcare market segment.
A 2% increase in the discount rate gives rise to an impairment of 8m and a 1% decline in the terminal growth rate by itself leads to an impairment of 7m.
If there is both a 2% increase in the discount rate and a 1% decline in the terminal growth rates an impairment charge of 22m would occur.
Americas: If the terminal growth rate were to fall by 1%, the impairment charge would increase by 114m, whereas a 2% increase in the discount rate results in an additional impairment charge of 92m.
If both assumptions moved adversely by these rates, the impairment charge would increase by 161m.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 200 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Other Intangible Assets Acquisition related Other Internally Licences generated Pension Customer and Software development related relationships franchises and IT expenditure intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 116.8 1.6 146.9 67.3 15.7 348.3 Eliminated on disposal 0.2 2.7 2.9 Additions from internal development 10.2 14.0 24.2 Additions from external acquisition 7.8 7.8 Disposals 26.8 51.9 14.7 6.2 99.6 Reclassification to held for sale assets 38.5 0.6 3.8 2.8 9.5 55.2 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 1.3 1.3 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Research and Development expenditure credit 0.8 0.8 Exchange differences 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.7 At 31 December 2015 51.9 1.0 110.2 59.1 222.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 76.3 1.4 100.5 35.6 15.7 229.5 Eliminated on disposal 0.2 0.2 0.4 Impairment charge 9.0 9.0 Amortisation charge internal development 12.7 7.4 20.1 Amortisation charge external 4.8 0.1 3.6 8.5 Disposals 26.1 51.0 14.0 6.2 97.3 Reclassification to held for sale assets 22.2 0.6 2.6 2.4 9.5 37.3 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2015 33.1 0.9 62.9 35.5 132.4 Net book value At 31 December 2015 18.8 0.1 47.3 23.6 89.8 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 201 Acquisition related Other Internally Licences generated Pension Customer and Software development related relationships franchises and IT expenditure intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 137.2 1.2 151.6 68.8 15.7 374.5 Eliminated on disposal 1.0 1.0 Additions from internal development 12.7 3.7 16.4 Additions from external acquisition 0.4 4.6 5.0 Disposals 19.8 3.4 2.0 25.2 Reclassification to held for sale assets 2.0 19.7 0.2 21.9 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.1 0.6 Write down of assets under construction 2.9 2.9 Exchange differences 2.4 1.4 0.2 4.0 At 31 December 2014 116.8 1.6 146.9 67.3 15.7 348.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2014 69.6 0.8 79.5 24.2 14.7 188.8 Eliminated on disposal 0.8 0.8 Exceptional impairment charge 4.7 0.3 1.0 6.0 Impairment charge 12.3 17.5 5.9 35.7 Amortisation charge internal development 16.1 7.9 24.0 Amortisation charge external 11.1 0.3 2.3 1.0 14.7 Disposals 19.8 3.1 1.0 23.9 Reclassification to held for sale assets 1.8 14.9 0.2 16.9 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 1.6 1.6 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences 1.0 1.0 0.4 2.4 At 31 December 2014 76.3 1.4 100.5 35.6 15.7 229.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 40.5 0.2 46.4 31.7 118.8 Included in Software and IT and other internally generated development expenditure is an amount of 11.8m 2014: 14.3m in respect of leased intangibles.
Customer relationships are amortised over the average length of contracts acquired.
The Group is carrying 18.8m 2014: 40.5m in relation to Customer relationships.
A further nil 2014: 0.2m is held within assets reclassified to held for sale.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition consists of amortisation in relation to Customer relationships and Licences and franchises and totals 4.9m 2014: 11.4m.
The net book value of internally generated intangible assets as at 31 December 2015 was approximately 23.6m 2014: 31.7m in development expenditure and 36.5m 2014: 43.1m in software and IT, of which 0.2m 2014: 2.5m is classified as held for sale.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 202 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Property, Plant and Equipment Machinery, Freehold Shortmotor vehicles, land and leasehold furniture and buildings assets equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 5.7 42.3 117.6 165.6 Additions 1.1 15.0 16.1 Reclassification to from other plant, property and equipment categories 0.9 0.9 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to from held for sale assets 2.8 128.1 125.3 Disposals 0.1 9.2 22.1 31.4 Eliminated on disposal 0.7 2.7 24.7 28.1 Exchange differences 0.1 4.2 4.3 At 31 December 2015 4.0 29.8 209.7 243.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 3.1 30.8 93.3 127.2 Charge for the year impairment 0.1 1.9 2.0 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 2.8 22.6 25.6 Reclassification to from other plant, property and equipment categories 0.2 0.2 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to from held for sale assets 2.0 77.0 75.0 Disposals 0.1 8.7 20.1 28.9 Eliminated on disposal 0.7 2.7 23.9 27.3 Exchange differences 0.1 3.5 3.6 At 31 December 2015 2.3 20.7 147.3 170.3 Net book value At 31 December 2015 1.7 9.1 62.4 73.2 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 203 Machinery, Freehold Shortmotor vehicles, land and leasehold furniture and buildings assets equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 5.4 61.4 299.0 365.8 Arising on acquisition 0.3 1.4 1.7 Additions 0.2 3.6 38.8 42.6 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.1 0.5 0.6 Reclassification to held for sale assets 18.5 199.6 218.1 Disposals 5.3 21.0 26.3 Eliminated on disposal 0.1 0.4 0.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.8 1.1 0.2 At 31 December 2014 5.7 42.3 117.6 165.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2014 2.1 31.9 155.0 189.0 Arising on acquisition 0.3 0.9 1.2 Charge for the year impairment exceptional 0.5 6.6 11.5 18.6 Charge for the year impairment 0.2 2.9 19.0 22.1 Charge for the year depreciation 0.3 5.9 35.6 41.8 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.5 0.5 Reclassification to held for sale assets 12.4 111.2 123.6 Disposals 4.7 16.2 20.9 Eliminated on disposal 0.1 0.2 0.3 Exchange differences 0.4 1.6 1.2 At 31 December 2014 3.1 30.8 93.3 127.2 Net book value At 31 December 2014 2.6 11.5 24.3 38.4 The carrying amount of the Groups Machinery, motor vehicles, furniture and equipment includes an amount of 36.5m 2014: 48.6m in respect of assets held under finance leases, of which nil 2014: 40.5m is classified as held for sale.
The carrying amount of the Groups Short-leasehold assets includes an amount of 0.3m 2014: 0.3m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 204 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Service spares 15.7 22.3 Parts awaiting installation 5.8 5.7 Work in progress 4.9 3.2 26.4 31.2 Total inventories held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 26.4m 2014: 33.9m and include 26.4m 2014: 31.2m shown above and nil 2014: 2.7m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Trade and Other Receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade and other receivables: non-current Amounts owed by joint ventures 7.2 9.0 Loans receivable note 29 19.5 Other investments 3.4 3.9 Other receivables 20.1 25.2 50.2 38.1 2015 2014 m m Trade and other receivables: current Trade receivables 173.6 146.8 Accrued income 225.5 217.3 Prepayments 57.6 71.1 Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts note 25 2.3 5.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.8 0.1 Loans receivable note 29 0.4 1.0 Security deposits 0.2 0.2 Other receivables 59.3 56.6 519.7 498.8 Total trade and other receivables held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 590.7m 2014: 682.7m and include 569.9m 2014: 536.9m shown above and 20.8m 2014: 145.8m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Included within current other receivables are capitalised bid costs of 9.0m 2014: 8.5m and phase in costs of 19.3m 2014: 17.6m that are realised as a part of the normal operating cycle of the Group.
These assets represent up-front investment in contracts which are expected to provide benefits over the life of those contracts.
In addition to the above, capitalised bid costs of nil 2014: 5.4m and phase in costs of 0.3m 2014: 5.1m are held within assets held for sale.
Also included within current other receivables are deferred transaction costs of nil 2014: 4.1m which were taken as a reduction to reserves on completion of the Rights Issue.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 205 The Group has a receivables financing facility of 30.0m 2014: 60.0m, of which 30.0m had been utilised at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 32.8m utilised.
This is a UK facility provided on a non-recourse basis with all relevant debtors requiring approval in advance by the facility provider.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating segments, although they report to Group on a monthly basis on debtor days, debtor ageing and significant outstanding debts.
The average credit period taken by customers is 20 days 2014: 21 days and no interest is charged on overdue amounts.
Each customer has an external credit score which determines the level of credit provided.
However, the majority of our customers either have a sovereign credit rating as a result of being government organisations or are blue chip private sector companies.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year, 39.6m 2014: 65.2m is due from agencies of the UK Government, the Groups largest customer.
A further nil 2014: 5.4m of trade receivables due from agencies of the UK Government is held within assets held for sale.
There are no other customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 31 December 2015, a total of 1.4m 2014: 4.4m of trade receivables held by the Group were considered to be impaired and include 1.4m 2014: 1.8m shown below and nil 2014: 2.6m included within amounts held for sale.
Impairments to trade receivables are based on specific estimated irrecoverable amounts and provisions on outstanding balances greater than a year old unless there is firm evidence that the balance is recoverable.
The total amount of the provision for the Group was 11.3m as of 31 December 2015 2014: 26.1m and included 11.3m 2014: 23.5m as shown below and nil 2014: 2.6m of provision for trade receivables held for sale.
The ageing of trade receivables is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Neither impaired nor past due 99.0 97.3 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 56.3 32.4 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 7.8 16.9 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 20.4 21.9 Impaired 1.4 1.8 Allowance for doubtful debts 11.3 23.5 173.6 146.8 Of the total overdue trade receivable balance, 35.5% 2014: 24.4% relates to the UK, US or Australian governments, and a further 34.4% 2014: 26.7% relates to the government of the United Arab Emirates.
The total allowance for doubtful debts is greater than the assets identified as impaired due to provision being made for partial impairment of balances held within one of the ageing categories.
Movements on the Group allowance for doubtful debts are as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 23.5 4.7 Released charged to income statement 6.8 22.0 Utilised 2.8 1.6 Exchange differences 0.8 1.0 Reclassified to held for sale 3.4 2.6 At 31 December 11.3 23.5 Included in the other receivables balance at the end of the year is a further 72.1m 2014: 79.7m due to agencies of the UK Government: with a further nil 2014: 4.4m being reclassified to assets held for sale.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 206 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Long-term Contracts 2015 2014 m m Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date: Amounts due from long-term project-based contract customers included in trade and other receivables 2.3 5.7 2.3 5.7 Long-term project-based contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 109.9 113.9 Less: progress payments 107.6 108.2 2.3 5.7 As at 31 December 2015, the Group had nil 2014: nil of contract retentions held by customers.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Other Other Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Customer advance payments 3.1 3.1 0.2 0.2 Other cash and short-term deposits 293.7 26.8 320.5 82.3 97.6 179.9 Total cash and cash equivalents 293.7 29.9 323.6 82.3 97.8 180.1 Customer advance payments totalling 3.1m 2014: 0.2m are encumbered cash balances.
A further nil 2014: 8.4m of encumbered cash has been reclassified as held for sale.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Total cash and cash equivalents held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 328.8m 2014: 202.5m and include 323.6m 2014: 180.1m shown above and 5.2m 2014: 22.4m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Trade and Other Payables 2015 2014 m m Trade and other payables: Current Trade payables 93.6 99.8 Other payables 96.4 112.6 Accruals 303.1 308.3 Deferred income 55.7 61.2 548.8 581.9 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 20 days 2014: 25 days.
2015 2014 m m Trade and other payables: Non-current Other payables 18.3 29.7 18.3 29.7 Total trade and other payables held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 574.5m 2014: 715.3m and include 567.1m 2014: 611.6m shown above and 7.4m 2014: 103.7m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 207 28.
Obligations under Finance Leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 17.0 15.8 10.4 9.6 Between one and five years 28.7 27.4 17.5 16.8 After five years 0.6 0.6 0.1 0.1 46.3 43.8 28.0 26.5 Less: future finance charges 2.5 1.5 Present value of lease obligations 43.8 43.8 26.5 26.5 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 17.0 15.8 10.4 9.6 Amount due for settlement after one year 26.8 28.0 16.1 16.9 Total obligations under finance leases held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 44.3m 2014: 63.6m and include 43.8m 2014: 26.5m shown above and 0.5m 2014: 37.1m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Finance lease obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
Loans Non recourse Total loans Other loans Total 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 131.9 3.7 43.7 47.4 Between one and two years 3.7 32.1 35.8 Between two and five years 62.5 9.4 302.0 311.4 After five years 167.6 7.2 419.3 426.5 362.0 24.0 797.1 821.1 Less: assets classified as held for sale 24.0 0.8 24.8 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 132.2 43.9 43.9 Less: amounts shown in receivables note 24 19.9 1.0 1.0 Amount due for settlement after one year 249.7 753.4 753.4 Included in loans repayable on demand or within one year are loan receivable amounts of 0.4m 2014: 1.0m.
The carrying amounts and fair values of the loans are as follows: Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m Other loans 381.9 379.0 797.3 806.8 Loan receivables 19.9 19.9 1.0 1.0 362.0 359.1 796.3 805.8 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a market rate appropriate to the loan.
All loans are held at amortised cost.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 208 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Loans continued Analysis of Net Debt At 1 Reclassified At 31 January Cash as held for Exchange Non cash December 2015 flow sale Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2015 m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 180.1 128.8 17.2 0.4 2.1 323.6 Loan receivables 1.0 0.6 19.5 19.9 Other loans 797.3 449.0 0.8 30.8 2.0 381.9 Obligations under finance leases 26.5 9.3 26.7 0.1 43.8 642.7 586.5 10.3 0.4 32.9 17.6 82.2 At 1 Reclassified At 31 January Cash as held for Exchange Non cash December 2014 flow sale Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2014 m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 125.1 74.1 22.4 2.1 1.0 2.2 180.1 Loan receivables 5.8 0.2 4.6 1.0 Non recourse loans 20.3 3.7 24.0 Other loans 788.0 18.8 0.8 32.5 3.6 797.3 Obligations under finance leases 68.0 18.2 37.1 0.1 13.7 26.5 745.4 107.2 39.5 2.1 1.0 30.4 14.7 642.7 Acquisitions represent the net cash debt acquired on acquisition.
Total net debt held by the Group amounts to 77.5m 2014: 682.2m of which 82.2m 2014: 642.7m is shown above and 4.7m asset 2014: 39.5m debt is included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 209 30.
Provisions Employee related Property Contract Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2014 15.7 5.3 25.9 14.2 61.1 Reclassified from trade and other receivables 3.9 3.9 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 0.2 0.1 0.3 Charged to income statement exceptional 8.8 2.2 19.4 57.7 88.1 Charged to income statement other 19.8 15.1 456.7 41.5 533.1 Released to income statement 0.2 0.1 3.5 4.2 8.0 Utilised during the year 7.7 1.7 36.3 5.1 50.8 Transferred to trade payables 8.2 8.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.7 21.5 6.8 30.0 Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 0.2 0.5 6.4 1.8 3.9 At 1 January 2015 35.1 21.5 430.4 90.9 577.9 Reclassified from trade and other payables 15.9 15.9 Charged to income statement exceptional 5.1 30.7 35.8 Charged to income statement other 16.6 3.1 89.1 14.0 122.8 Released to income statement exceptional 1.4 2.8 0.8 5.0 Released to income statement other 1.0 0.5 90.2 13.5 105.2 Utilised during the year 10.7 6.0 116.8 16.6 150.1 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 Transfer to from assets held for sale 8.0 4.9 2.6 10.3 Unwinding of discount 0.1 5.5 5.6 Exchange differences 0.7 0.4 8.5 1.7 5.7 At 31 December 2015 36.4 18.3 302.1 124.9 481.7 Analysed as: Current 14.2 5.7 90.5 58.2 168.6 Non-current 22.2 12.6 211.6 66.7 313.1 Total provisions held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 506.2m 2014: 607.9m and include 481.7m 2014: 577.9m shown above and 24.5m 2014: 30.0m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Contract provisions relate to onerous contracts which will be utilised over the life of each individual contract, up to a maximum of 8 years from the balance sheet date.
The present value of the estimated future cash outflows required to settle the contract obligations as they fall due over the respective contracts has been used in determining the provision.
The individual provisions are discounted where the impact is assessed to be material.
A full analysis is performed at least annually of the future profitability of all contracts with marginal performances and of the balance sheet items directly linked to these contracts.
Due to the significant size of the balance and the inherent level of uncertainty over the amount and timing of the related cash flows upon which onerous contract provisions are based, if the expected operational performance varies from the best estimates made at the year end, a material change in estimate may be required.
The key drivers behind operational performance is the level of activity required to be serviced, which is often directed by the actions of the UK Government, and the efficiency of Group employees and resources.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 210 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Provisions continued Employee related provisions are for long-term service awards and terminal gratuities liabilities which have been accrued and are based on contractual entitlement, together with an estimate of the probabilities that employees will stay until retirement and receive all relevant amounts.
There are also amounts included in relation to restructuring.
The provisions will be utilised over various periods driven by local legal or regulatory requirements, the timing of which is not certain.
Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either underutilised or vacant and where the unavoidable costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benefits expected to be generated in the future.
The provision has been calculated based on the discounted cash outflows required to settle the lease obligations as they fall due, with the longest running lease ending in April 2039.
Other provisions are held for indemnities given on disposed businesses, legal and other costs that the Group expects to incur over an extended period.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome and will be utilised with reference to the specific facts and circumstances, with the majority expecting to be settled by 31 December 2021.
Capital and Other Commitments 2015 2014 m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided: Property, plant and equipment 9.3 4.4 Intangible assets 6.9 0.8 Of the above, nil 2014: 2.6m in relation to property, plant and equipment commitment is associated with assets which have been reclassified as held for sale.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 36.9 69.6 Between one and five years 64.1 160.3 After five years 12.3 57.5 113.3 287.4 Of the above, 0.5m 2014: 97.9m is associated with assets which have been reclassified as held for sale.
Of this 0.3m 2014: 14.2m is due within one year, 0.2m 2014: 44.3m is due between one and five years, and nil 2014: 39.4m is due after five years.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 211 32.
Contingent Liabilities The Company has guaranteed overdrafts, finance leases, and bonding facilities of its joint ventures up to a maximum value of 21.1m 2014: 26.2m.
The actual commitment outstanding at 31 December 2015 was 20.8m 2014: 21.4m.
The Company and its subsidiaries have provided certain guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance and other bonds, issued by its banks on its behalf in the ordinary course of business.
The total commitment outstanding as at 31 December 2015 was 211.8m 2014: 192.1m.
The Group is aware of other claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
On 31 May 2011 we filed a claim with the Authority for Advance Rulings AAR to seek confirmation that Serco was not obliged to withhold Indian income tax from the purchase price on the acquisition of Intelenet.
The AAR declined to rule on the matter, so Serco filed a claim with the High Court to decide or direct the AAR to rule on the matter.
The High Court has issued a judgement in favour of Serco, that is, there was no requirement to withhold income tax.
Further litigation to a higher court is a possibility.
Should the matter be decided against Serco, it would be liable for unprovided tax of 27m together with accrued interest to 31 December 2015 of 14m.
Having taken appropriate professional advice, management considers it likely that Serco will ultimately be successful in this matter.
As we have disclosed before, we are under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating fully with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation but it is not possible to predict the outcome.
However, disclosed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties in this Report is a description of the range of possible outcomes in the event that the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute the individuals and or the Serco entities involved.
Financial Risk Management 33. a Fair Value of Financial Instruments i Hierarchy of fair value The classification of the fair value measurement falls into three levels, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are as follows: Level 1: i nputs derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: i nputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Based on the above, the derivative financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2015 and the comparison fair values for loans and finance leases, are all considered to fall into Level 2.
Market prices are sourced from Bloomberg and third party valuations.
The valuation models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 212 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial Risk Management continued 33. a Fair Value of Financial Instruments continued i Hierarchy of fair value continued The Group held the following financial instruments which fall within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at 31 December: Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Amortised Fair value Amortised Fair value cost Level 2 Level 2 cost Level 2 Level 2 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets current Cash and bank balances 323.6 323.6 180.1 180.1 Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 6.6 5.6 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 2.6 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 Loans and receivables Trade receivables note 24 173.6 173.6 146.8 146.8 Loan receivables note 24 0.4 0.4 1.0 1.0 Security deposits note 24 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Amounts owed by joint ventures note 24 0.8 0.8 0.1 0.1 Financial assets non-current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 7.8 7.0 Loans and receivables Loan receivables note 24 19.5 19.5 Other investments note 24 3.4 3.4 3.9 3.9 Amounts owed by joint ventures note 24 7.2 7.2 9.0 9.0 Financial liabilities current Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.4 17.3 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 0.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade payables note 27 93.6 93.6 99.8 99.8 Loans note 29 132.2 132.2 43.9 43.9 Obligations under finance leases note 28 15.8 15.8 9.6 9.6 Financial liabilities non-current Financial liabilities at amortised cost Loans note 29 249.7 246.8 753.4 762.9 Obligations under finance leases note 28 28.0 28.0 16.9 16.9 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 213 The Directors estimate that the carrying amounts of cash, trade receivables and trade payables approximate to their fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair values of loans and finance lease obligations are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the liability.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach applying discount factors derived from observable market data to actual and estimated future cash flows.
Credit risk is considered in the calculation of these fair values.
ii Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments results in a net asset of 14.8m 2014: net liability of 4.8m comprising noncurrent assets of 7.8m 2014: 7.0m, current assets of 9.4m 2014: 5.9m, current liabilities of 2.4m 2014: 17.7m and non-current liabilities of nil 2014: nil.
Movement in fair Movement in fair value value of derivatives of derivatives not designated in hedge designated in hedge 31 December 1 January 2015 accounting relationships accounting relationships 2015 m m m m Currency swaps 6.8 3.6 10.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 11.6 0.1 15.9 4.4 4.8 3.7 15.9 14.8 Movement in fair Movement in fair value value of derivatives of derivatives not designated in hedge designated in hedge 31 December 1 January 2014 accounting relationships accounting relationships 2014 m m m m Currency swaps 0.6 7.4 6.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts 31.9 0.2 20.1 11.6 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 32.6 7.6 20.2 4.8 The fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss is 2.4m 2014: 17.3m and relates to derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships.
The fair value of the derivatives and their credit risk adjusted fair value are not materially different, and are approximately equal to the amount contractually payable at maturity due to the short tenor of the instruments.
33 b Financial Risk The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The Board delegates authority to the executive team to manage financial risks.
The Groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly defined guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed, specify the objectives in managing these risks, delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 214 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial Risk Management continued 33 c Liquidity Risk i Credit facilities The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
As at 31 December, the Groups committed bank credit facilities and corresponding borrowings were as follows: Utilised Total for bonding facility Amount Drawn facility available 2015 2015 2015 2015 Currency millions m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility GBP 480.0 9.0 471.0 Total Amount Drawn Undrawn facility 2014 2014 2014 2014 Currency millions m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility GBP 730.0 185.0 545.0 730.0 On 30 April 2015, the Groups committed revolving facility was reduced in size from 730.0m to 480.0m and the maturity increased by two years to April 2019.
In addition to the banking facility the Group has outstanding US private placements of 374.6m which will be repaid as bullet repayments between 2016 and 2024.
In addition to the bank and private placement facilities the Group has a 30.0m receivables financing facility 2014: 60.0m of which 30.0m 2014: 32.8m was drawn at year end.
ii Maturity of financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities will be settled on both a net and a gross basis over the remaining period between the balance sheet date and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
On demand or Between one Between two After within one year and two years and five years five years Total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Trade payables note 27 93.6 93.6 Obligations under finance leases note 28 17.0 13.1 15.6 0.6 46.3 Loans note 29 132.2 64.9 187.6 384.7 Future loan interest 14.6 12.6 33.1 19.1 79.4 Derivative financial liabilities settled on net basis Derivatives settled on gross basis Outflow 291.8 3.6 67.2 362.6 Inflow 298.8 3.7 75.2 377.7 250.4 25.6 105.6 207.3 588.9 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs On demand or Between one within one year and two years Between two After Total restated restated and five years five years restated At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Trade payables note 27 99.8 99.8 Obligations under finance leases note 28 10.4 10.1 7.4 0.1 28.0 Loans note 29 43.9 32.1 304.6 420.1 800.7 Future loan interest 25.4 22.4 61.2 48.0 157.0 Derivative financial liabilities settled on net basis 15.6 15.6 Derivatives settled on gross basis Outflow 457.5 35.1 111.3 603.9 Inflow 461.0 37.2 116.6 614.8 191.6 62.5 367.9 468.2 1,090.2 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 215 Gross cash flows in the table above relating to forward foreign exchange contracts total 274.0m inflows and 269.7m outflows on demand or within one year and 0.7m inflows and 0.7m outflows between one and two years 2014: 447.9m inflow and 444.2m outflow all on demand or within one year.
Total loans on demand or within one year for the Group amount to 132.2m 2014: 44.7m at December 2015 of which 132.2m 2014: 43.9m is included above and nil 2014: 0.8m is classified as held for sale.
33 d Foreign Exchange Risk i Transactional It is the Groups policy to hedge material transactional exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2015, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions.
ii Translational Where possible the Group will raise external funding to match the currency profile of its foreign operations, in order to mitigate translation exposure.
If matched funding is not possible, currency derivatives may be used to protect against movements in foreign exchange.
iii Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Pages 172 and 173 detail the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
At 31 December 2015, the Group held cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges against $138.6m of the US Dollar private placements.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US Dollars are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in Sterling.
The profile of these cross currency swaps held by the Group in the current and prior year is as follows: 2015 Receivable 2014 Receivable Notional USD interest Payable GBP Notional a USD interest Payable GBP amount rate interest rate mount rate interest rate Maturity USDm % % USDm % % August 2015 11.0 5.7 5.7 May 2016 31.5 3.6 4.3 50.0 3.6 4.3 May 2018 63.0 4.4 4.9 100.0 4.4 4.9 October 2019 44.1 3.8 4.1 70.0 3.8 4.1 The Group also held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
These derivatives are hedging highly probable forecast foreign currency trade payments in the UK business.
The net notional amounts are summarised by currency below: 2015 2014 m m Sterling 10.8 8.5 US Dollar 2.9 Euro 11.0 4.4 Indian Rupee 7.0 All derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are highly effective and as at 31 December 2015 a net fair value loss of 2.7m 2014: 4.9m has been deferred in the hedging reserve.
During the course of the year to 31 December 2015, 0.6m 2014: 2.7m of fair value gains were transferred to the hedging reserve and 2.8m 2014: nil reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 216 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Financial Risk Management continued 33 d Foreign Exchange Risk continued iv Currency sensitivity The Groups currency exposures in respect of monetary items at 31 December 2015 that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from movement in US Dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The impact is summarised below: Pre-tax profits Pre-tax profits gain loss Equity gain gain loss Equity gain 2015 loss 2015 2014 loss 2014 m m m m US Dollar 0.3 0.7 19.7 0.4 Euro 1.0 0.4 Indian Rupee 6.7 0.3 0.3 13.0 0.8 33 e Interest Rate Risk The Groups policy is to minimise the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings to provide an appropriate level of certainty to cost of funds.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises principally on changes to US Dollar and Sterling interest rates.
i Interest rate management An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: Weighted average Weighted Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate Floating rate Fixed rate average interest 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 rate 2014 Financial assets m m % m m % Cash and cash equivalents 323.6 180.1 Other loan receivables 0.4 19.5 7.0 1.0 324.0 19.5 181.1 Weighted Weighted average average interest Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate Floating rate Fixed rate rate 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Financial liabilities m m % m m % Non recourse Sterling loans Sterling loans 205.3 16.6 2.72 US Dollar loans 374.6 5.10 568.2 4.12 Other loans 10.1 10.6 10.1 374.6 215.9 584.8 Total cash and cash equivalents held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 328.8m 2014: 202.5m and include 323.6m 2014: 180.1m shown above and 5.2m 2014: 22.4m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Total floating rate and fixed rate loans held by the Group at 31 December 2015 amount to 10.1m 2014: 216.7m and 374.6m 2014: 608.8m respectively and include 10.1m 2014: 215.9m and 374.6m 2014: 584.8m shown above and nil 2014: 0.8m and nil 2014: 24.0m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated through the issuance of fixed rate debt and the use of interest rate derivatives.
Excluded from the above analysis is 43.8m 2014: 26.5m of amounts payable under finance leases, which are subject to fixed rates of interest.
ii Interest rate sensitivity The effect of a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR rates on the net financial liability position at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax loss for the year to 31 December 2015 of 3.2m 2014: 0.1m.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 217 33 f Credit Risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principle exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are Government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed credit worthiness of a customer, Government or non-government, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Groups Treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre-approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
33 g Capital Risk The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversification of committed funding and debt maturity profile.
The Group plans to maintain sufficient funds and distributable reserves to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
The following table summarises the capital of the Group: 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents 323.6 180.1 Loans 362.0 796.3 Obligations under finance leases 43.8 26.5 Equity 282.1 66.2 Capital 364.3 576.5 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 218 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Retirement Benefit Schemes The Group has accounted for pensions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The pension charge for the year ended 31 December 2015 excluding pension arrangements operated by joint ventures, was 87.3m 2014: 108.8m.
34 a Defined Benefit Schemes The Group operates defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
The assets of the funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The trustees of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method.
This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the present value of benefits, projected rates of salary growth, and life expectancy of pension plan members.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit schemes are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one scheme to settle obligations in the other scheme and intends to exercise this right.
In accounting for the defined benefit schemes, the Group has applied the following principles.
Asset recognised for SPLAS is based on the assumption that the full surplus will ultimately be available to the Group as a future refund of surplus.
No foreign exchange item is shown in the disclosures as the non-UK liabilities are not material.
No pension assets are invested in the Groups own financial instruments or property.
The schemes in the UK typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
Investment Risk The present value of the defined benefit schemes liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields: if the return on plan assets is below this rate, a deficit will be created.
Interest risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the scheme liability but this will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the plans debt investments.
Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit scheme liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants, as such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
i Balance sheet values The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are grouped together as follows: Contract specific These are pre-funded defined benefit schemes.
The Group has obligations to contribute variable amounts to the pension schemes over the terms of the related contracts.
At rebid, any deficit or surplus would be expected to transfer to the next contractor.
The Group has recognised as a liability the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contracts with a corresponding amount recognised as intangible assets at the start of the contracts.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of the pension obligations have been recognised in the SOCI.
The intangible assets are amortised over the term of the contracts.
Non contract specific These consist of two pre-funded defined benefit schemes the funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis and an unfunded defined benefit scheme.
These schemes do not relate to any specific contract.
Any liabilities arising are recognised in full.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 219 ii Triennial funding valuation Among our non contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The estimated actuarial deficit of SPLAS as at 31 December 2015 was approximately 28.0m 2014: 5.0m.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was undertaken as at 5 April 2012 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 24m.
Following this review, the Group agreed with the trustees to make a small increase in contributions, bringing cash contributions of up to 33% of members pensionable salaries until 2021.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 5 April 2015 is being undertaken and is due to be released in July 2016.
The level of benefits and contributions under the scheme is kept under continual review in light of the needs of the business and changes to pension legislation.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2015 2015 2015 m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 2.8 39.1 41.9 Bonds except LDI 0.3 0.3 Liability driven investments LDI 1,144.4 1,144.4 Gilts 68.1 68.1 Property 0.6 0.6 Cash and other 0.9 30.7 31.6 Annuity policies 22.0 22.0 Fair value of scheme assets 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 Net amount recognised 3.1 115.6 112.5 Franchise adjustment 1.9 1.9 Members' share of deficit 1.2 1.2 115.6 115.6 Analysed as: Net pension liability 11.5 11.5 Net pension asset 127.1 127.1 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2014 2014 2014 m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 48.1 38.5 86.6 Bonds except LDI 44.3 15.6 59.9 Liability driven investments LDI 12.8 1,252.8 1,265.6 Gilts 22.2 22.2 Property 3.5 3.5 Cash and other 3.5 31.0 34.5 Annuity policies 23.9 23.9 Fair value of scheme assets 134.4 1,361.8 1,496.2 Present value of scheme liabilities 161.3 1,231.3 1,392.6 Net amount recognised 26.9 130.5 103.6 Franchise adjustment 22.9 22.9 4.0 130.5 126.5 Analysed as: Net pension liability 4.0 13.4 17.4 Net pension asset 143.9 143.9 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 220 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 34 a Defined Benefit Schemes continued Liabilities in relation to unfunded schemes included above amount to 0.3m 2014: 0.3m.
The Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS has a Liability Driven Investment LDI strategy which aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities.
The main asset classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with inflation and interest swap overlays.
The value of these investments vary in line with gilt yields, which has dropped from 3.83% p. a. to 2.55% p. a. during 2015 resulting in a decrease in these assets.
In addition, LDI assets were transferred to a separate gilt portfolio in late December to back a longevity swap.
The decrease in the value of LDI investments was less than the increase in scheme liabilities and the increase in gilt yields was less than the fall in yields of high quality corporate bonds resulting in a decrease in the surplus in the year.
As required by IAS19, the Group has considered the extent to which the pension plan assets should be classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy of IFRS13.
Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
Annuity policies and property assets can be classified as Level 3 instruments.
In some schemes, employee contributions vary over time to meet a specified proportion of the overall costs, including a proportion of any deficit.
The liabilities recognised in the balance sheet for these schemes are net of the proportion attributed to employees.
In addition, the amounts charged to the income statement for these schemes are net of the proportion attributed to employees.
The amounts attributed to employees are shown separately in the reconciliation of changes in the fair value of scheme assets and liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the financial statements for the year are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2015 2015 2015 m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 1.5 8.4 9.9 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Settlement gain recognised 3.3 3.3 Administrative expenses and taxes 4.6 4.6 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 1.8 13.4 11.6 Interest income on scheme assets employer 1.1 48.6 49.7 Interest on franchise adjustment Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 1.2 43.6 44.8 Finance income 0.1 5.0 4.9 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 1.3 18.5 17.2 Less: interest income on scheme assets 1.1 48.6 49.7 0.2 67.1 66.9 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 0.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.5 42.7 44.2 Effect of experience adjustments 0.5 6.6 7.1 Remeasurements recognised in the SOCI 2.2 18.0 15.8 Change in franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Change in members share 0.3 0.3 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 0.4 0.4 Total pension loss gain recognised in the SOCI 1.8 18.0 16.2 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 221 Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2014 2014 2014 m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 7.7 8.8 16.5 Past service cost 2.5 2.5 Administrative expenses and taxes 2.1 3.5 5.6 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 9.8 14.8 24.6 Interest income on scheme assets employer 10.6 51.3 61.9 Interest on franchise adjustment 1.6 1.6 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 12.1 48.3 60.4 Finance income 0.1 3.0 3.1 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 29.8 242.4 272.2 Less: interest income on scheme assets 10.6 52.2 62.8 19.2 190.2 209.4 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 3.2 3.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 42.9 116.8 159.7 Effect of experience adjustments 4.2 4.3 0.1 Remeasurements recognised in the SOCI 19.5 72.3 52.8 Change in franchise adjustment 17.4 17.4 Change in members share 3.9 3.9 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 17.4 3.9 13.5 Total pension gain loss recognised in the SOCI 2.1 68.4 66.3 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 222 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 34 a Defined Benefit Schemes continued Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total m m m At 1 January 2014 267.8 1,091.2 1,359.0 Current service cost employer 7.7 8.8 16.5 Current service cost employee 0.2 0.2 Past service costs 2.5 2.5 Scheme participants contributions 0.8 0.4 1.2 Interest cost employer 12.1 48.3 60.4 Interest cost employee 1.1 1.1 Benefits paid 4.1 39.1 43.2 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 3.2 3.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 42.9 116.8 159.7 Effect of experience adjustments 4.2 4.3 0.1 Eliminated on disposal of a pension scheme 161.7 161.7 At 31 December 2014 161.3 1,231.3 1,392.6 At 1 January 2015 161.3 1,231.3 1,392.6 Current service cost employer 1.5 8.4 9.9 Current service cost employee 0.2 0.2 Past service costs 0.4 0.4 Scheme participants contributions 0.3 0.6 0.9 Interest cost employer 1.2 43.6 44.8 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.8 46.5 47.3 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 0.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.5 42.7 44.2 Effect of experience adjustments 0.5 6.6 7.1 Arising on acquisition 7.8 7.8 Plan settlements 34.4 34.4 Disposal of scheme 127.5 127.5 At 31 December 2015 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 223 Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total m m m At 1 January 2014 227.2 1,145.9 1,373.1 Interest income on scheme assets employer 10.6 51.3 61.9 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.9 0.9 Administrative expenses and taxes 2.1 3.5 5.6 Employer contributions 13.3 15.4 28.7 Contributions by employees 0.8 0.7 1.5 Benefits paid 4.1 39.1 43.2 Return on scheme assets less interest income 19.2 190.2 209.4 Eliminated on disposal of a pension scheme 130.5 130.5 At 31 December 2014 134.4 1,361.8 1,496.2 At 1 January 2015 134.4 1,361.8 1,496.2 Interest income on scheme assets employer 1.0 48.6 49.6 Interest income on scheme assets employee Administrative expenses and taxes 4.5 4.5 Employer contributions 0.6 11.5 12.1 Contributions by employees 0.3 0.6 0.9 Benefits paid 0.8 46.5 47.3 Return on scheme assets less interest income 0.3 67.2 66.9 Arising on acquisitions 4.5 4.5 Plan settlements 31.0 31.0 Eliminated on disposal of a pension scheme 104.7 104.7 At 31 December 2015 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 224 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 34 a Defined Benefit Schemes continued Changes in the franchise adjustment is analysed as follows: Total m At 1 January 2014 35.1 Interest on franchise adjustment 1.6 Taken to SOCI 17.4 Eliminated on disposal of scheme 31.2 At 31 December 2014 22.9 At 1 January 2015 22.9 Interest on franchise adjustment Taken to SOCI 0.1 Arising on acquisition of scheme 2.0 Eliminated on disposal of scheme 22.9 At 31 December 2015 1.9 On 1 April 2015 Serco Caledonian Sleepers Limited became part of the Serco Group.
As a result of franchising obligations under the Caledonian Sleepers contract, the Group now sponsors a section of an industry wide defined benefit scheme, the Railways Pension Scheme RPS.
This has resulted in the addition of fair value of scheme assets of 4.5m, present value of scheme liabilities of 7.8m, a change in members share of 1.3m and a franchise adjustment of 2.0m.
The RPS section is required to be funded over the period for which the franchise is held with a defined benefit liability recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of that obligation in accordance with IAS 19.
The RPS is a shared cost arrangement.
All costs, and any deficit or surplus is shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
Furthermore, under the franchising obligations, the responsibility of the employer is to pay the contributions requested of the trustee whilst it operates the franchise.
There is no residual liability or asset for any deficit, or surplus, which remains at the end of the franchise period.
Under this scheme members build a 1 60th pension and 1 40th lump sum based upon their pensionable pay.
Some members of the RPS are subject to Protected Persons legislation, which requires individual consent to changes to benefits, and certain rights upon transfer between sections of the scheme.
The NPL contract and its associated defined benefit pension scheme ceased to be part of the Serco Group on 1 January 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, the group consolidated balance sheet included the schemes fair value of scheme assets of 104.6m, present value of scheme liabilities of 127.5m and franchise adjustment of 22.9m.
The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2016 are 11.9m financial year ended 31 December 2015: 13.5m.
The average duration of the benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16.7 years 2014: 18.3 years.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 225 Assumptions in respect of the expected return on scheme assets are required when calculating the franchise adjustment for the contract-specific plans.
These assumptions are based on market expectations of returns over the life of the related obligation.
Due consideration has been given to current market conditions as at 31 December 2015 in respect to inflation, interest, bond yields and equity performance when selecting the expected return on assets assumptions.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates is derived from their market value.
The yield on equity investments contains an additional premium an equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional anticipated risks of holding this type of investment, when compared to bond yields.
Management have concluded that an appropriate equity risk premium is 4.6% 2014: 4.6%.
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns for the principal asset categories held by the scheme.
2015 2014 % % Main assumptions: Rate of salary increases 2.80 2.70 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.00 CPI and 3.00 RPI 2.00 CPI and 3.00 RPI Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI Inflation assumption 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI Discount rate 3.80 3.60 2015 2014 Years Years Post-retirement mortality: Current pensioners at 65 male 22.6 22.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 25.1 25.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 24.4 24.3 Future pensioners at 65 female 27.1 27.0 Management considers the significant actuarial assumptions with regards to the determination of the defined benefit obligation to be the discount rate, inflation, the rate of salary increases and mortality.
Sensitivity analysis is provided below, based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other assumptions are held constant.
The sensitivities have been derived in the same manner as the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2015 where the defined benefit obligation is estimated using the Projected Unit Credit method.
Under this method each participants benefits are attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the schemes benefit allocation formula.
Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 226 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued 34 a Defined Benefit Schemes continued The defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2015 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date.
The sensitivities are calculated by changing each assumption in turn following the methodology above with all other things held constant.
The change in the defined benefit obligation from updating the single assumption represents the impact of that assumption on the calculation of the defined benefit obligation.
Change in Change in present value present value of scheme of scheme Assumption Change in liabilities liabilities Assumption 2015 assumption 2015 2014 Discount rate 3.8% 0.5% 9% 9% 0.5% 10% 10% Inflation 2.1% CPI 0.5% 9% 9% 3.1% RPI 0.5% 8% 8% Rate of salary increase 2.6% 0.5% 1% 1% 0.5% 1% 1% Mortality 22.6 27.1 Increase by one year 2% 2% Post retirement mortality range for male and female, current and future pensioners.
Management acknowledges that the method used of presuming that all other assumptions remaining constant has inherent limitation given that it is more likely for a combination of changes, but highlights the value of each individual risk and is therefore a suitable basis for providing this analysis.
34 b Defined Contribution Schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 75.7m 2014: 84.2m into UK and other defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.
Pre-funded defined benefit schemes treated as defined contribution Serco accounts for certain pre-funded defined benefit schemes relating to contracts as defined contribution schemes because the contributions are fixed until the end of the current concession and at rebid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 227 35.
Share Capital Number Number 2015 2015 2014 2014 m Millions m Millions Issued and fully paid: 549,265,547 2014: 499,328,896 ordinary shares of 2p each at 1 January 11.0 549.3 10.0 499.3 Issued on the exercise of share options and the Rights Issue 11.0 549.3 1.0 50.0 1,098,559,781 2014: 549,265,547 ordinary shares of 2p each at 31 December 22.0 1,098.6 11.0 549.3 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
In April 2015 the Group successfully completed an equity Rights Issue, raising approximately 555m of gross proceeds 530m net after expenses of 25m, with trading in new shares commencing on 17 April 2015 and 549,265,547 new shares being issued.
Share Premium Account 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 327.9 327.8 Premium on shares issued 0.1 At 31 December 327.9 327.9 37.
Reserves 37 a Retirement Benefit Obligations Reserve The retirement benefit obligations reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of annual actuarial valuations for defined benefit retirement schemes, the fair value adjustments on reimbursable rights and the related movements in deferred tax balances.
37 b Share based Payment Reserve The share based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share based payment transactions and any gain or loss on the exercise of share options satisfied by own shares.
37 c Own Shares Reserve The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Serco Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Serco Group plc Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT to satisfy options under the Groups share options schemes.
The market value of shares held by the ESOT as at 31 December 2015 was 10.1m 2014: 17.1m.
37 d Hedging and Translation Reserve The hedging and translation reserve represents foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and movements relating to cash flow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total m m m At 1 January 2014 2.3 38.7 41.0 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 2.7 24.8 22.1 At 1 January 2015 5.0 13.9 18.9 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 2.2 41.0 38.8 At 31 December 2015 2.8 54.9 57.7 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 228 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Share Based Payment Expense The Group recognised the following expenses related to equity-settled share based payment transactions: 2015 2014 m m Long-term Incentive Scheme and Plan 0.1 Performance Share Plan 9.9 5.5 Deferred Bonus Plan 0.3 Sharesave 2012 0.4 0.2 9.8 5.4 Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
The options are granted at market value and awards made to eligible employees are based on between 50% and 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options may be forfeited if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the movement in all EOP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2015 2014 2014 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 336 4.16 1,469 3.24 Rights Issue adjustment 79 4.16 Exercised during the year 536 2.81 Lapsed during the year 228 4.48 597 3.11 Outstanding at 31 December 187 3.77 336 4.16 Of these options 187,308 2014: 335,886 were exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted average exercise price of 3.77 2014: 4.16.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.6 years 2014: 2.7 years.
The exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 December 2015 ranged from 3.39 to 4.55 2014: 3.39 to 4.55.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise approximates to the weighted average share price during the year, which was 3.30 2014: 3.45.
The fair value of options granted under the EOP is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice model.
The Binomial Lattice model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as it allows exercise over a longer period of time between the vesting date and the expiry date.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plan during the year.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 229 Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to eligible employees under the above schemes are structured as options with a zero exercise price.
The extent to which an award vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to the growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS or total shareholder return TSR over the performance period or service period conditions.
Details of the movement in all LTIS and LTIP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2015 2014 2014 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 276 Nil 488 Nil Rights Issue adjustment 64 Nil Exercised during the year 70 Nil 212 Nil Lapsed during the year 30 Nil Nil Outstanding at 31 December 240 Nil 276 Nil Of these options, 240,058 2014: 275,831 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.3 years 2014: 2.3 years.
There were no new options granted under either LTIS or LTIP during the year.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, eligible employees have been granted options with an exercise price of two pence.
Awards vest after the performance period of three to five years and are subject to the achievement of four performance measures with the exception of new non-performance awards granted in 2014.
These non-performance options are only subject to continued employment on vesting dates which vary from six months to three years after the grant dates.
On the performance related awards, the primary performance measure is TSR and the second performance measure is based on EPS growth.
Two additional measures on new grants in 2014 were Absolute Share Price and Strategic Objectives.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2015 2014 2014 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 10,743 0.02 10,471 0.02 Granted during the year 15,053 0.02 5,077 0.02 Rights Issue adjustment 2,565 0.02 Exercised during the year 654 0.02 128 0.02 Lapsed during the year 3,936 0.02 4,677 0.02 Outstanding at 31 December 23,771 0.02 10,743 0.02 Of these options 23,771,076 2014: 10,743,178 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average contractual life of 2.0 years 2014: 8.6 years.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 230 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Share Based Payment Expense continued Performance Share Plan PSP continued In the year, six grants were made, of which one grant was a non-performance buy out award to an executive.
The remaining five performance based awards are with Absolute Share Price and TSR and EPS performance conditions each attached to 33.3% of options.
The options subject to Absolute Share Price and TSR performance conditions were valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The options subject to EPS growth and Strategic Objectives performance conditions were deemed to have fair values equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
The Monte Carlo Simulation model is considered to be the most appropriate for valuing options granted under schemes where there are changes in performance conditions by which the options are measured, such as for the Absolute Share Price or TSR based awards.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo Simulation model for options granted during the year with TSR performance conditions are: 2015 Weighted average share price 138p Weighted average exercise price 2p Expected volatility 41.6% Annual dividend yield N a Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 0.7% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS and ROIC performance conditions are: 2015 Weighted average share price 138p Weighted average exercise price 2p Expected volatility N a Annual Dividend Yield N a Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N a The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 1.20 2014: 2.23.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 231 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, eligible employees are entitled to use up to 50% of their earned annual bonus to purchase shares in the Group at market price.
Provided they remain in employment for this period, the shares are retained for that period and the performance measures have been met, the Group will make a matching share award, up to a maximum of two times the gross bonus deferred.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2015 2014 2014 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 351 Nil 825 Nil Granted during the year 759 Nil Nil Rights issue adjustment 83 Nil Lapsed during the year 287 Nil 474 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 906 Nil 351 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2014: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average contractual life of 2.08 years 2014: 0.72 years.
There were 759,094 new options granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan in the year, with 100% of the deferred bonus subject to the same EPS performance conditions as the PSP.
The portion subject to EPS performance conditions was deemed to have a fair value equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS performance conditions are: 2015 Weighted average share price 1.38 Weighted average exercise price Nil Expected volatility N a Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N a The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 1.36.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 232 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Share Based Payment Expense continued Sharesave 2012 The Sharesave 2012 scheme provides for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant less 10%.
The options can be exercised for a period of six months following their vesting.
Details of the movement in Sharesave 2012 options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2015 2014 2014 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 2,875 5.14 5,132 5.14 Exercised during the year 5.14 1 5.14 Rights issue adjustment 504 5.14 Lapsed during the year 1,328 5.14 2,256 5.14 Outstanding at 31 December 2,051 5.14 2,875 5.14 Of these options, none 2014: none were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average contractual life of 0.4 years 2014: 1.4 years.
Given that options granted under the Sharesave plan can be exercised at any time after vesting, management consider the Binomial Lattice model to be appropriate to value the options granted under this scheme.
The Binomial Lattice model allows exercise over a window in time, from vesting date to expiry date and assumes option holders make economically rational exercise decisions.
There were no new options granted under Sharesave Plan in the year.
Related Party Transactions Transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture undertakings are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following material transactions with joint ventures: 2015 2014 m m Royalties and management fees receivable 1.7 Dividends receivable 32.5 34.8 32.5 36.5 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 233 The following receivable balances were held relating to joint ventures: 2015 2014 m m Current: Loans and other receivables 1.4 0.1 2015 2014 m m Non-current: Loans and other receivables 7.2 9.0 Joint venture receivable and loan amounts outstanding have arisen from transactions undertaken during the general course of trading, are unsecured, and will be settled in cash.
Interest arising on loans is based on LIBOR, or its equivalent, with an appropriate margin.
No guarantee has been given or received.
No provisions are required for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the joint ventures.
Remuneration of key management personnel The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 8.4 8.4 Post-employment benefits 0.1 Share based payment expense 1.1 0.9 9.5 9.4 The key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee 2015: 19 individuals, 2014: 19 individuals.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 234 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash Inflow from Operating Activities 2015 2014 Before 2015 Before 2014 Exceptional Exceptional 2015 Exceptional Exceptional 2014 Items Items Total Items Items Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Operating profit loss for the year continuing operations 106.2 109.9 3.7 626.8 325.7 952.5 Operating profit loss for the year discontinued operations 26.5 77.6 51.1 29.0 335.8 364.8 Operating profit loss for the year 132.7 187.5 54.8 655.8 661.5 1,317.3 Adjustments for: Share of profits in joint ventures 37.0 37.0 30.0 30.0 Share based payment expense 9.8 9.8 5.4 5.4 Exceptional impairment of goodwill 153.4 153.4 466.0 466.0 Exceptional impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 18.6 18.6 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 6.0 6.0 Impairment and write down of intangible assets other 11.5 11.5 38.6 38.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment other 2.1 2.1 22.1 22.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 28.9 28.9 41.8 41.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 29.0 29.0 38.7 38.7 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 2.8 2.8 0.8 0.8 Exceptional impairment of loan receivable 4.6 4.6 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1.5 1.5 0.2 0.2 Non cash R&D expenditure offset against intangible assets 0.8 0.8 Increase decrease in provisions 116.0 9.5 125.5 472.6 85.5 558.1 Increase in deferred consideration in relation to prior year acquisition 4.0 4.0 Other non cash movements 19.1 19.1 Impairment of working capital items non cash 148.8 148.8 Total non cash items 13.2 141.6 128.4 772.2 581.5 1,353.7 Operating cash inflow outflow before movements in working capital 82.5 45.9 36.6 86.4 80.0 6.4 Decrease increase in inventories 5.6 5.6 1.4 1.4 Decrease in receivables 20.6 20.6 8.7 18.8 27.5 Decrease increase in payables 48.8 10.7 59.5 9.7 20.8 30.5 Movements in working capital 22.6 10.7 33.3 17.0 39.6 56.6 Cash generated by operations 59.9 56.6 3.3 103.4 40.4 63.0 Tax paid repaid 2.7 2.7 0.6 0.6 Non cash R&D expenditure 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 56.5 56.6 0.1 103.5 40.4 63.1 Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to 5.2m 2014: 12.5m were financed by new finance leases.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 235 41.
Assets Held For Sale As part of the Strategy Review, certain assets and liabilities have been designated as non-core and are held for sale.
As at 31 December 2015 this is limited to the Middle East elements of the offshore private sector BPO operations and the remaining onshore private sector BPO businesses, all of which is expected to be sold in 2016.
Following the agreement to dispose of the offshore private sector BPO operations it was determined that the Environmental Services and Leisure businesses would no longer be disposed for both strategic and financial reasons.
As a result, these operations were transferred out of held for sale at 15 December 2015, the point at which this decision was made and publically announced.
The balances included as held for sale are as follows: At 31 December At 31 December 2015 2014 Note m m Assets Goodwill 20 7.8 279.1 Other intangible assets 21 0.4 5.0 Property, plant and equipment 22 0.9 94.5 Deferred tax assets 17 11.0 Other non-current assets 24 0.2 26.8 Inventories 23 2.7 Current tax 4.7 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 26 5.2 22.4 Other current assets 24 20.6 119.0 Assets classified as held for sale 39.8 564.7 Liabilities Other current liabilities 27 7.4 96.1 Current tax liabilities 0.1 21.8 Provisions 30 24.5 30.0 Obligations under finance leases 28 0.5 37.1 Loans 29 24.8 Deferred tax liabilities 17 2.5 Other non-current liabilities 27 7.6 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 32.5 219.9 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
