STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for 1. the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 2. t he Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United performance of the business and the position of the Company and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Accounting Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not thatthey face: and approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss 3. t he Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, of the Company for that period.
arefair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors business model and strategy.
arerequired to: By Order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: David Squires Derek Harding Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 26 February 2016 26 February 2016 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it isinappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69
