Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 1.
Description of operations Product sales Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Revenue for the sale of products is recognized when delivery has Shire, or the Company is a biotech Company, focusing on occurred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership developing and marketing innovative medicines for patients with have been transferred to the customer.
Provisions for rebates, rare diseases and other select conditions.
product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are The Company has grown both organically and through acquisition, recorded.
The provisions made at the time of revenue recognition completing a series of major transactions that have brought are based on historical experience and updated for changes in therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
facts and circumstances including the impact of new legislation The Company will continue to conduct its own R&D, focused on and loss of a products exclusivity.
These provisions are rare diseases, as well as evaluate companies, products and recognized as a reduction to revenues.
pipeline opportunities that offer a strategic fit and have the potential to deliver value to all of the Companys stakeholders: Royalty income patients, physicians, policy makers, payers, investors and Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when employees.
the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty income recorded based on sales information received from 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies the relevant licensee.
The Company estimates sales amounts and a Basis of preparation related royalty income based on the historical product information The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the for any period that the sales information is not available from the accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the relevant licensee.
Income Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company accounts and transactions.
They have been prepared in Licensing revenues accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the Other revenue includes revenues derived from product outUnited States of America US GAAP and US Securities and licensing arrangements, which typically consist of an initial up-front Exchange Commission SEC regulations for annual reporting.
payment to Shire by the licensee on inception of the license and subsequent milestone payments to Shire by the licensee, contingent b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements on the achievement of certain clinical and sales milestones.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity Product out-licensing arrangements often require the Company with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to toprovide multiple deliverables to the licensee.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and Initial license fees received in connection with product outliabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and licensing agreements entered into prior to January 1, 2011 were reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting deferred and are recognized over the period in which the Company period.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation has continuing substantive performance obligations, typically the to the valuation of intangible assets, sales deductions, income period over which the Company participates in the development taxes including provisions for uncertain tax positions and the ofthe out-licensed product, even where such fees are nonrealization of deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and legal refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments.
proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from product For product out-licensing arrangements entered into, or subject divestments, contingent consideration payable in respect of tomaterial modification, after January 1, 2011, consideration business combinations and asset purchases and assets held received is allocated between each of the separable elements forsale.
If actual results differ from the Companys estimates, or inthe arrangement using the relative selling price method.
tothe extent these estimates are adjusted in future periods, the Anelement is considered separable if it has value to the customer Companys results of operations could either benefit from, or be ona stand-alone basis.
The selling price used for each separable adversely affected by, any such change in estimate.
element will be based on vendor specific objective evidence c Revenue recognition VSOE if available, third party evidence if VSOE is not available, The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor third party evidence conditions are met: is available.
Revenue is then recognized as each of the separable elements to which the revenue has been allocated is delivered.
there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non-creditable and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and as revenues either on achievement of such milestones if the collectability is reasonably assured.
milestones are considered substantive or over the period the Company has continuing substantive performance obligations, Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and ifthe milestones are not considered substantive.
If milestone similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future milestones are deferred and released over the period in which events or future performance.
theroyalties are anticipated to be paid.
The Companys principal revenue streams and their respective d Sales deductions accounting treatments are discussed below: i Rebates Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the 116 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information related sales are recorded, with the amount of the rebate based on Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the the Companys best estimate if any uncertainty exists over the unit consolidated balance sheet as property, plant and equipment rebate amount, and with estimates of future utilization derived from andare depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease historical trends.
The capital element of future lease payments isrecorded as a liability, while the interest element is charged to ii Returns operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that onthe balance of the capital lease obligation.
will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet h Advertising expense date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
same period as the related sales are recorded.
Advertising costs amounted to $56.1million and $56.4million forthe years to December 31, 2015 and 2014 respectively and iii Coupons were included within Selling, general and administrative The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
is established based on the Companys expectation of the level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical trends.
The accrual i Research and development R&D expense is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Up-front and milestone therelated sales are recorded or the date the coupon is offered, payments made to third parties for in-licensed products that have iflaterthan the date the related sales are recorded.
not yet received marketing approval and for which no alternative future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
iv Discounts The Company offers cash discounts to customers for the early Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent payment of receivables which are recorded as reductions to toregulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and revenue and accounts receivable in the same period as the related amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than v Wholesaler chargebacks goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and investments The Company has contractual agreements whereby it supplies The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
other than goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are investments for impairment whenever events or changes in reimbursed by the Company if the predetermined prices are less circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Company.
Accruals assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is related sales are recorded.
compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether the carrying value is recoverable.
If the carrying value is deemed e Collaborative arrangements not to be recoverable, the amount of the impairment recognized in The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating and commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative the fair value of the relevant assets and recording an impairment arrangements often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit loss for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually determined based contingent upon the success of the related development and onestimated discounted cash flows.
Collaboration agreements entered into by the Company may also include expense reimbursements or k Finance costs of debt other such payments to the collaborating partner.
Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred charge and amortized to the consolidated statements of income The Company reports costs incurred and revenue generated from over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using transactions with third parties as well as payments between parties the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net basis, debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are written off and depending on the characteristics of the collaborative relationship.
charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
f Cost of product sales l Foreign currency Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for into the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary in which those products that are manufactured by the Company, shipping theyarise at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant assets in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the payable to third party intellectual property owners on sale of the transaction.
Transaction gains and losses, other than those related Companys products are also included in Cost of product sales.
to current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving at income from operations before income taxes and equity g Leased assets in earnings of equity method investees.
Transaction gains and The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a losses arising on foreign currency denominated current and deferred straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes in the not made on such a basis.
Shire Annual Report 2015 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based currency is not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of atthe average rates of exchange during the period, with the estimated forfeitures over the employees requisite service period.
subsidiaries balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the For those share-based compensation awards with a graded balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the cost of the relevant movements is included in a separate component of Other share-based payment award as an expense on a straight-line comprehensive loss.
basis net of estimated forfeitures over the requisite service period for the entire award that is, over the requisite service period for the Foreign currency exchange transaction losses included in last separately vesting portion of the award.
The share-based consolidated statements of income in the years to December 31, compensation expense is recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $26.5million and $15.6million, SG&A and Reorganization costs in the consolidated statements of respectively.
income based on the employees respective functions.
m Income taxes The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial deductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on the statements for positions which are considered more likely than not amount of compensation cost recognized and the Companys of being sustained, based on the technical merits of the position statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, deduction reported on the Companys income tax return are is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction exceeds probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
the deferred tax asset or in the consolidated statements of income if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no The Company recognizes interest and penalties relating to additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
The Companys share-based compensation plans are described The Company recognizes interest and penalties relating to income more fully in Note 29. taxes within income taxes.
Interest income on cash required to be deposited with the tax authorities is recognized within interest income.
p Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences investments with original maturities of ninety days or less.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and q Financial instruments derivatives liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the exposure to foreign exchange risk principally associated with enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the inter-company financing.
These instruments consist of swap and differences are expected to affect taxable income.
The Company does not apply hedge accounting for these instruments.
The fair values of these Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, instruments are included on the balance sheet in current assets inthe opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The cash flows relating to n Earnings per share these instruments are presented within net cash provided by Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable to operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Company divided by the weighted average number of ordinary unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share specific investing or financing activities.
is based upon net income attributable to the Company adjusted r Inventories for the impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost incurred if-converted basis when the effect is dilutive and prior to the in bringing each product to its present location and condition is actual conversion or redemption of such debt divided by the based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, weighted average number of ordinary share equivalents including transportation costs.
outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares equivalents that were outstanding during Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and, the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the for certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory approval.
effect would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the the diluted loss per share.
Company considers that it is highly probable that the US Food and Drug Administration FDA or another regulatory body will grant o Share-based compensation commercial and manufacturing approval for the relevant product, Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based and it is highly probable that the value of capitalized inventories will awards granted to employees.
The Company measures sharebe recovered through commercial sale.
based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or Predominantly all of the Companys awards have service and or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory adjustments may be required.
118 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information s Assets held-for-sale Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the An asset or asset disposal group is classified as held-for-sale consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs of major when, amongst other things, the Company has committed to a renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, plan of disposition, the asset or asset disposal Group is available plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and significantly.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
disposition is reflected in operating income.
The Company does not record depreciation or amortization on v Goodwill and other intangible assets assets classified as held-for-sale.
i Goodwill In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, t Investments 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and consideration given and the fair value of any non-controlling biotechnology companies.
interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior Investments are accounted for using the equity method of to January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the fair value accounting if the investment gives the Company the ability to of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable exercise significant influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment, between 20% and 50%, although other factors such as representation at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances on the investees Board of Directors and the nature of commercial indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the equity method goodwill is allocated at the Companys reporting unit level.
ofaccounting, the Company records its investments in equityEventsor changes in circumstances which could trigger an method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under impairment review include but are not limited to: significant Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected historical together with other-than-temporary impairments in value under or projected future operating results: significant changes in the equity in losses earnings of equity method investees, net of manner of the Companys use of acquired assets or the strategy taxesin the consolidated statements of income.
for the overall business: and significant negative industry trends.
All other equity investments, which consist of investments for The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by firstly assessing which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant qualitative factors, including comparing the market capitalization influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair ofthe Company to the carrying value of its assets, to determine value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less whether events or circumstances exist which indicate that it is provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less publiccompanies that have readily determinable fair values, the than its carrying amount.
The Company assesses the totality of Company classifies its equity investments as available-for-sale events or circumstances and determines that it is more likely than and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value.
with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the If, after assessing these qualitative factors, it is deemed more likely consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in value carrying value, a two step quantitative assessment is performed of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-than-temporary, by comparing the carrying value of the reporting units net assets are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements including allocated goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific If the reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value, identification method.
Interest on securities classified as availablea second step is performed whereby the portion of the reporting for-sale is included as interest income in the consolidated units fair value relating to goodwill is compared to the carrying statements of income.
value of the reporting units goodwill.
The Company recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying u Property, plant and equipment value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for impairment losses, net of accumulated depreciation.
The cost of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the construction period.
Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 15 to 50 years Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 3 to 15 years The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are available and ready for their intended use.
Shire Annual Report 2015 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The current requirement that deferred tax liabilities and assets of ii Other intangible assets atax-paying component of an entity be offset and presented as Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property asingle amount is not affected by the amendments in this update.
rights for products with a defined revenue stream, acquired The guidance is effective for financial statements issued for annual product technology and IPR&D.
Intellectual property rights for periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods currently marketed products and acquired product technology are within those annual periods.
Earlier application is permitted for recorded at fair value and amortized over the estimated useful allentities as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting lifeof the related product, which ranges from 4 to 24 years period.
The amendments in this update may be applied either weighted average 20 years.
IPR&D acquired through a business prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or combination is capitalized as an indefinite lived intangible asset retrospectively to all periods presented.
If an entity applies the until the completion or abandonment of the associated R&D guidance prospectively, the entity should disclose in the first efforts.
IPR&D is reviewed for impairment using a one-step interim and first annual period of change, the nature of and reason approach which compares the fair value of the IPR&D asset with for the change in accounting principle and a statement that prior its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized to the extent periods were not retrospectively adjusted.
that the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the IPR&D asset.
Shire adopted this guidance prospectively in the current period Once the R&D efforts are completed the useful life of the relevant presented and the prior year balance sheet classification of assets will be determined, and the IPR&D asset amortized over deferred taxes has not been adjusted.
The adoption of this this useful economic life.
guidance primarily resulted in a reclassification of net current The following factors, where applicable, are considered in deferred tax assets to net non-current deferred tax liabilities in estimating the useful lives of Other intangible assets: theConsolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2015.
expected use of the asset: Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the of Components of an Entity regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and In April 2014 the FASB issued guidance on the reporting of actions by government agencies: discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing components of an entity.
The amendments in this update revise products and other economic factors, including the stability of the definition of discontinued operations by limiting discontinued the market, known technological advances, development of operations reporting to disposals of components of an entity that competing drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: represent strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others an entitys operations and financial results.
The guidance requires that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and expanded disclosures for discontinued operations which provide users of financial statements with more information about the historical experience of renewing or extending similar arrangements.
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses of discontinued When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these operations.
The guidance also requires an entity to disclose the factors are considered in combination when determining the pre-tax profit or loss of an individually significant component of an appropriate useful life for the relevant asset.
entity that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting.
w Non-monetary transactions Shire adopted this guidance in the period, which will be effective The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions that for discontinued operations occurring after January 1, 2015. involve either the granting of a license over the Companys patents Theadoption of this guidance did not impact the Companys or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Company accounts for To be adopted in future periods these transactions at fair value if the Company is able to determine Revenue from Contracts with Customers the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent the Company In May 2014 the FASB and the International Accounting Standards concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a Board together the Accounting Standards Boards issued a new transaction that transaction is accounted for at the recorded accounting standard that is intended to clarify and converge the amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to financial reporting requirements for revenue from contracts with exercise its judgment in determining whether or not the fair value customers.
The core principle of the standard is that an entity of the asset received or given up can be determined.
recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or x New accounting pronouncements services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration Adopted during the period to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes goods or services.
To achieve that core principle the Accounting In November 2015 the Financial Accounting Standards Board Standards Boards developed a five-step model as presented FASB issued guidance to simplify the balance sheet below and related application guidance, which will replace most presentation of deferred income taxes.
The amendments in this existing revenue recognition guidance in US GAAP.
update require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified Five-step model: as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position Step 1: Identify the contract s with a customer.
compared to the current practice of classifying deferred income tax liabilities and assets into both current and noncurrent amounts.
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Step 3: Determine the transaction price.
Step 4: A llocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
Step 5: R ecognize revenue when or as the entity satisfies aperformance obligation.
120 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Accounting Standards Boards also issued new qualitative The amendments in these updates are effective for financial andquantitative disclosure requirements as part of the new statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, accounting standard which aims to enable financial statement 2015, and interim periods therein.
Early adoption is permitted for users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty financial statements that have not been previously issued.
An entity ofrevenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
should apply the new guidance on a retrospective basis, wherein the balance sheet of each individual period presented should be In August 2015 the FASB decided to defer the effective date of adjusted to reflect the period-specific effects of applying the new theguidance by one year.
Based on this deferral, public entities guidance.
Upon transition, an entity is required to comply with the would need to apply the new guidance for annual reporting applicable disclosures for a change in an accounting principle.
periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods TheCompany does not expect the adoption of this guidance to therein.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, results adopting this guidance.
of operations and cash flows.
Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud In February 2015 the FASB issued guidance to respond to ComputingArrangement stakeholders concerns about the current accounting for consolidation In April 2015 the FASB issued guidance to simplify the customers of certain legal entities.
Financial statement users asserted that accounting for fees paid in a cloud computing arrangement.
incertain situations in which consolidation is ultimately required, Theamendments provide guidance to customers about whether deconsolidated financial statements are necessary to better acloud computing arrangement includes a software license.
analyze the reporting entitys economic and operational results.
Ifacloud computing arrangement includes a software license, Previously, the FASB issued an indefinite deferral for certain then the customer should account for the software license entities to partially address those concerns.
However, the elementof the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of amendments in this guidance rescind that deferral and address othersoftware licenses.
If a cloud computing arrangement does those concerns by making changes to the consolidation guidance.
not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract.
The amendments will be Under the amendments, all reporting entities are within the scope effective for annual periods, including interim periods within of Subtopic 810-10, Consolidation, including limited partnerships thoseannual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015. and similar legal entities, unless a scope exception applies.
The Earlyadoption is permitted for all entities.
An entity can elect to presumption that a general partner controls a limited partnership adopt the guidance either a prospectively to all arrangements has been eliminated.
In addition, fees paid to decision makers entered into or materially modified after the effective date or thatmeet certain conditions no longer cause decision makers to b retrospectively.
The Company does not expect the adoption of consolidate a VIE in certain instances.
The amendments place this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial more emphasis in the consolidation evaluation on variable interests position, results of operations and cash flows.
other than fee arrangements such as principal investment risk for example, debt or equity interests, guarantees of the value of the Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory assets or liabilities of the VIE, written put options on the assets of In July 2015 the FASB issued guidance to simplify the the VIE, or similar obligations, including some liquidity commitments measurement of inventory which currently requires an entity to or agreements explicit or implicit.
Additionally, the amendments measure its inventory at the lower of cost or market, whereby reduce the extent to which related party arrangements cause an market could be replacement cost, net realizable value, or net entity to be considered a primary beneficiary.
realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin.
Theamendment provides guidance that an entity should measure The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and years, and for interim periods therein, beginning after December 15, net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling 2015.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable period.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
Subsequent to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, measurement is unchanged for inventory measured using last in results of operations and cash flows.
first out or the retail inventory method.
This amendment will be Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs effective for annual periods, including interim periods within In April 2015 the FASB issued guidance to simplify the presentation thoseannual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016. of debt issuance costs.
The guidance requires that debt issuance Earlyadoption is permitted for all entities.
The Company is costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.
balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts.
The recognition In September 2015 the FASB issued guidance to simplify the and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not accounting for measurement-period adjustment.
The amendments affected by the amendments in this update.
in this update require that an acquirer recognize adjustments to In August 2015 the FASB issued further guidance to incorporate provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement the SEC staffs observation that, given the absence of authoritative period in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts guidance, the SEC staff would not object to an entity deferring aredetermined.
The guidance further requires that the acquirer andpresenting debt issuance costs arising from line-of-credit record, in the same periods financial statements, the effect on arrangements as an asset and subsequently amortizing these earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, effects, if any, as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the theline-of-credit arrangement.
acquisition date and present separately on the face of the income statement or disclose in the notes the portion of the amount Shire Annual Report 2015 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make date.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal year beginning after estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities years.
The guidance should be applied prospectively to adjustments at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported to provisional amounts that occur after the effective date of this amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
update with earlier application permitted for financial statements Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to that have not been issued.
The Company does not expect the thevaluation of intangible assets including goodwill, sales adoption of this guidance to have a material effect onits deductions, income taxes including provisions for uncertain consolidated financial position, results of operations and cashflows taxpositions and the realization of deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and legal proceedings, contingent consideration Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and receivable from divestments of products or businesses and FinancialLiabilities contingent consideration payable in respect of business In January 2016 the FASB issued guidance to address certain combinations and asset purchases.
If actual results differ from aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure theCompanys estimates, or to the extent these estimates are of financial instruments.
The amendments in this update revises adjusted in future periods, the Companys results of operations the entitys accounting related to the classification and measurement could either benefit from, or be adversely affected by, any such of investment in equity securities and the presentation of certain change in estimate.
fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value.
It also amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the i Valuation of intangible assets fair value of financial instruments.
The guidance will be effective for In accordance with US GAAP the Company classifies intangible fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim assets into three categories: 1 finite lived intangible assets, which periods within those fiscal years.
Upon adoption, entities will be are amortized over their estimated useful lives: 2 intangible required to make a cumulative effect adjustment to the statement assetswith indefinite lives, which are not subject to amortization: of financial position as of the beginning of the first reporting period and 3 goodwill.
in which the guidance is effective.
The guidance on equity securities At December 31, 2015 the carrying value of the Companys without readily determinable fair value will be applied prospectively finitelived intangible assets was $7,811.3million 2014: to all equity instruments that exist as of the date of the adoption of $3,384million, the carrying value of the Companys indefinite this standard.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this livedintangible assets was $1,362.0million 2014: $1,550million, guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial and the carrying valueof the Companys goodwill was position, results of operations and cash flows.
The Companys indefinite y Statutory accounts lived intangible assetsrelate solely to IPR&D assets acquired The consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2015 through business combinations.
and 2014, and for each of the three years in the period to a.
Initial valuation of intangible assets acquired through December 31, 2015 do not comprise statutory accounts within the businesscombinations meaning of Section 434 of the UK Companies Act 2006 or Article The Company accounts for business combinations using the 104 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts of acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2014 prepared under UK acquisition at their respective fair values.
Any excess of the fair GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law have been delivered to value of consideration given and the fair value of any noncontrolling the Registrar of Companies for Jersey.
The consolidated accounts interest over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the Company for the year to December 31, 2014 prepared in acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The determination of the accordance with US GAAP, in fulfillment of the Companys United estimated fair values of acquired intangible assets, including Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA annual reporting requirements determining the appropriate unit of account for each intangible were filed with the UKLA.
The auditors reports on these accounts asset, as well as the useful economic life ascribed to finite lived were unqualified.
intangible assets, requires the use of significant judgment.
The useof different estimates and assumptions to those used by the Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts of Company could result in a materially different valuation of acquired Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2015 prepared under UK intangible assets, which could have a material effect on the GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law will be delivered to the Companys results of operations.
Registrar of Companies in Jersey in 2016.
The Company further expects to file the consolidated accounts of the Company for the US GAAP provides acquirers with a reasonable time to obtain the year to December 31, 2015, prepared in accordance with US information necessary to identify and measure the assets acquired GAAP, in fulfillment of the Companys UKLA annual reporting and liabilities assumed in a business combination a measurement requirements with the UKLA in 2016. period.
The measurement period cannot exceed more than one year from the acquisition date.
In accordance with US GAAP, if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred, the Company reports in its financial statements preliminary amounts for those items for which the accounting is incomplete, which mayinclude intangible assets acquired.
During the measurement period, the Company considers all pertinent factors to determine whether new information obtained after the acquisition date regarding the values of intangible assets should result in an adjustment to the provisional amounts recognized or whether 122 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information thatnew information results from events that occurred after The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income theacquisition date and should result in an adjustment through approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period current period earnings.
Depending upon the nature of this new excess earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D information, significant judgment may be required in determining assets has been based on the present value of probability whether the adjustment should be reflected as an adjustment to adjusted incremental cash flows which a market participant would provisional amounts or adjusted through current period earnings.
expect the IPR&D projects to generate on a highest and best use Application of a different judgment could materially impact the basis, after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other Companys results of operations.
assets employed in these projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the probability of success of each development Initial valuation of finite lived intangible assets project, and the application of an appropriate market participant At December 31, 2015 the carrying value of the Companys finite discount rate commensurate with the projects stage of lived intangible assets was $7,811million.
In the year to December completion, the nature of the product, the scientific data 31, 2015 the Company acquired finite lived intangible assets associated with the technology, the current patent situation and totaling $4,993million, primarily relating to the intangible assets for market competition.
currently marketed products and royalty right assets acquired with NPS Pharma.
The cash flows that will ultimately be generated by IPR&D projects are subject to major risks and uncertainties including whether The fair values of all finite lived identifiable intangible assets, for theIPR&D projects will be completed in a timely manner, if at all, commercialized products, developed product technologies and whether the necessary regulatory approvals will be obtained and royalty right assets, acquired through business combinations how commercially successful the project will be subsequent to havebeen determined using an income approach on a project-bycommercial launch.
The Company is required to use estimates project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The andassumptions in relation to these risks and uncertainties multi-period excess earnings method starts with a forecast of all whenvaluing IPR&D projects.
The use of different estimates and expected future net cash flows which a market participant could assumptions to those used by the Company could result in a have either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the materially different valuation of the related IPR&D.
However, as the intellectual property, customer relationships, product technologies valuation process for IPR&D involves a number of inter-relating and other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to assumptions, the Company does not consider it meaningful to present value by applying a market participant discount rate that quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of IPR&D to changes in reflects the risk factors that a market participant would associate anyindividual assumption.
with the cash flows to the extent the underlying cash flows have not similarly been risk adjusted.
Forecasting these future cash The initial valuation of indefinite lived IPR&D is based on flows requires various assumptions to be made, including whether information that existed at the time of the acquisition of the relevant and to what extent future net cash flows are specific to Shire or development project, and utilizes expectations and assumptions could also be achieved by a market participant.
These valuations that i have been deemed reasonable by the Companys are based on information that is known or reasonably knowable at management, and ii are based on information, expectations and the time of the acquisition of the identifiable intangible assets, and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market the expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the reasonable by the Companys management and ii are based on underlying assumptions or estimates associated with the valuation information, expectations and assumptions that would be available of IPR&D will occur as projected.
If IPR&D projects fail during to and made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, development, are abandoned or subject to significant delay, or do however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated not receive the relevant regulatory approvals, the Company may with such valuations will occur as projected.
For these reasons, not realize the future cash flows that it has estimated nor recover among others, actual cash flows may differ from these the value of the R&D investment made subsequent to acquisition forecastsand, dependent on the outcome of future events or of the project.
If such circumstances occur, the Companys future circumstances, impairment losses as outlined below may result.
operating results could be materially adversely impacted.
The use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by b.
Subsequent measurement of intangible assets the Company could result in a materially different valuation of Finite lived intangible assets estimation of amortization charges finitelived intangible assets.
However, as the valuation process for andimpairment losses intangible assets involves a number of inter-related assumptions, Managements estimate of the useful life of its finite lived intangible the Company does not consider it meaningful to quantify the assets considers, amongst other things, the following factors: sensitivity of the valuation of intangible assets to changes in any individual assumption.
i the expected use of the finite lived intangible asset by theCompany: Initial valuation of indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete technologies ii a ny legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit and development projects that the Company has acquired or extend the useful life: throughbusiness combinations which, at the time the business iii t he effects of demand and competition, including the launch combination closed, had not reached technological feasibility or of generic products: and which had no alternative future use.
At December 31, 2015 the carrying value of the Companys indefinite lived intangible assets iv o ther general economic and or industry specific factors IPR&D was $1,362million.
In the year to December 31, 2015 the suchas the stability of the industry, known technological Company acquired IPR&D assets totaling $475million, primarily advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or relating to the IPR&D assets acquired with Meritage and Foresight.
changing regulatory environment, and expected changes indistribution channels.
Shire Annual Report 2015 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued Indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D estimation of The Company reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject impairmentlosses to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of The Company reviews its indefinite lived intangible assets which the useful life if warranted by events or circumstances.
Any future currently only relate to IPR&D assets for impairment annually or changes to the useful life of the Companys finite lived intangible more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that assets could result in higher or lower amortization charges in the asset might be impaired.
Indefinite lived assets are reviewed future periods, which could materially affect the Companys results for impairment by comparing the fair value of the indefinite lived from operations.
asset based on market participant assumptions, which may differfrom entity specific assumptions with its carrying amount.
The Company reviews its finite lived intangible assets for An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying impairment using a two-step approach, whenever events or value exceeds the estimated fair value of the relevant indefinite circumstances suggest that the carrying value of its finite lived lived intangible asset.
intangible assets may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and ultimate Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys disposition of the finite lived intangible asset based on entity IPR&D assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to specific assumptions are less than its carrying value, the intangible anevaluation of the relevant asset for impairment, include those asset is considered not to be recoverable.
The impairment loss is factors considered for finite lived intangible assets outlined above determined under step two as the amount by which the carrying as well as any adverse changes to the technological or commercial value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value based on viability of the IPR&D projects, which could include abandonment, market participant assumptions, which may differ from entity or significant delays in progression, of the IPR&D project or a specific assumptions.
decline in its estimated commercial potential.
The occurrence of any such events or circumstances could result in the Company Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys reducing the estimated future net cash flows to be generated by, finite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which and the fair value of, its indefinite lived intangible assets and would lead to an evaluation of the recoverability of the relevant therefore give rise to an impairment loss.
asset, include but are not limited to, the following: After the identification of such events or circumstances, and i c hanges to a products commercialization strategy: theresultant impairment reviews, the Company recognized impairment losses of $643.7million in the year to December 31, ii t he loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or 2015, to write-down its SHP625 and SHP608 IPR&D assets to challenge or circumvention by competitors of the Companys their fair value See Note 13, Other intangible assets, net to the regulatory exclusivity patents: consolidated financial statements set forth in this Annual Report.
iii t he development and marketing of competitive products, In 2014 the Company recorded impairment losses of including generic entrants into the marketplace: $190.3million.
These impairments were recorded in advance of the annual testing date.
Factors leading to these impairments were iv c hanges to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: disclosed in detail as part of 2014 Annual Report.
Dependent on v sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, future events or circumstances, the Companys operating results competitive pricing: could be materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses relating to its indefinite lived intangible assets.
vi the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the Companys products: Goodwill estimation of impairment losses The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, vii a significant deterioration in a products operating ormore frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying performance compared to expectations: and amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
viii an expectation that the intangible asset will be divested before The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by firstly assessing the end of its previously estimated useful life.
qualitative factors, including comparing the market capitalization ofthe Company to the carrying value of its assets, to determine The occurrence of any such events or circumstances may result in whether events or circumstances exist which indicate that it is the Company reducing the estimated future net cash flows to be more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less generated by, and the fair value of, its finite lived intangible assets than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the totality of events or and therefore give rise to an impairment loss.
circumstances, the Company determines that it is more likely than The Company has not recorded any impairment losses in respect not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, of finite lived intangible assets in the year to December 31, 2015 then the goodwill is considered recoverable and no further testing and 2014. is performed.
If, after assessing these qualitative factors, it is deemed more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is Dependent on future events or circumstances, the Companys less than its carrying value, a two step quantitative assessment operating results could be materially and adversely affected by is performed.
This qualitative determination requires the use of future impairment losses relating to its finite lived intangible assets.
judgment in concluding, based on the totality of events or circumstances, whether goodwill is considered recoverable or whether a further quantitative assessment is required to be performed.
124 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Under this two step quantitative assessment, the Company firstly The amount of these reserves is based on historical experience of compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value.
rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, Ifthe carrying value of a reporting unit is greater than its fair changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or value, then goodwill is considered impaired and a further test is negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, performed to determine the amount by which the carrying value projected product returns and the levels of inventory in the distribution ofa reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, with an channel.
Adjustments are made for known changes in these impairment loss recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
factors, including changes in product lifecycle, on a quarterly basis.
The quantitative determination of fair value of a reporting unit Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel requires the use of significant judgment and assumptions, which are derived from product-by-product inventory data provided by include, amongst other things, the estimation of future forecast wholesalers and results of independently commissioned retail cash flows and an appropriate discount rate used to determine inventory surveys.
Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment review State Medicaid and other government program reimbursement asof October 1, 2015, which indicated, based on qualitative practices with retroactive application can result in changes to factors that the Companys goodwill was recoverable and was managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
notdeemed to be at risk of impairment.
The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and managed care ii Sales Deductions rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating Sales deductions consist primarily of statutory rebates to State assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid and other government agencies, Medicare Part D Medicaid agency or MCO.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful rebates, contractual rebates with Managed Care Organizations to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption MCOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of discounts, distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and these uncertainties, taken as a whole, significantly impacts the allowances for coupon and patient assistance programs.
These Companys financial condition or results of operations.
deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recognized.
Estimates of future Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December obligations are derived from historical experience adjusted to 31, 2015 and 2014 were $982million and $882million, or 16% and reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
15%, respectively of net product sales.
Historically, actual rebates On the balance sheet the Company records wholesaler have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
chargebacks and trade discounts as a reserve against accounts Product Returns receivable, whereas all other sales deductions are recorded The Company typically accepts customer product returns in the withincurrent liabilities.
following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product The Company has the following significant categories of sales damaged while in Shires possession: c under sales terms that deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d following the Company considers to be critical accounting estimates, and product recalls or product withdrawals.
Generally, returns for require the Company to use information from external sources: expired product are accepted three months before and up to one year after expiration date of the relevant product and the returned Medicaid and Managed Care Rebates product is destroyed.
Depending on the product and the In the US, statutory and any supplemental rebates to State Companys return policy with respect to that product, the Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to MCOs under Company may either refund the sales price paid by the customer managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated by issuance of a credit, or exchange the returned product with discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase replacement inventory.
The Company typically does not provide as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product cash refunds.
ifprices increase faster than general inflation.
Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result It can take up to six months for information to reach the Company in a return by considering relevant factors, including: on actual usage of the Companys products in managed care andMedicaid programs and on the total rebates to be reimbursed.
i past product returns activity: Similarly, it can take some months before reimbursement claims ii the duration of time taken for products to be returned: are actually made by the Medicaid and Managed Care agencies.
As a result the Company estimates the reserves required for iii the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: amounts payable under these programs relating to sold products.
iv product recalls and discontinuances: v the shelf life of products: vi the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and vii the loss of patent protection, exclusivity or new competition.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers and results of independently commissioned third party retail inventory surveys.
Shire Annual Report 2015 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued These releases were partially offset by the recognition of Returns reserves for new products and for those products with additionalprovisions for uncertain tax positions of $48.8million generic or authorized generic competition generally require a 2014: $84.5million in relation to ongoing compliance higher level of estimation than those for established products management for current and prior years.
without generic or authorized generic competition.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially product which can include guaranteed sales, the Companys higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could policy is to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is significantly impact the Companys results of operations or evidence of end-patient acceptance of the new product primarily financial condition.
However, the Company does not believe it is through third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of any such under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Companys change in assumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the change, if any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after positions, as any such change is dependent on factors such as launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the future changes in tax law or administrative practice, the amount product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and nature of additional taxes which may be asserted by the and any other relevant factors as noted above.
taxation authorities, and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a settlement for any such position.
The Company estimates returns reserves for products with generic or authorized generic competition based on historical sales, the At December 31, 2015 the Company recognized a liability estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel, product of$216.3million for total unrecognized tax benefits 2014: utilization and rebate data, which are modified through the use $207.8million and had accrued $26.5million 2014: $25.8million ofmanagement judgment to take into account many factors, for the payment of interest and penalties.
The Company is including, but not limited to, current market dynamics, changes requiredin certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to incontract terms, changes in sales trends and product pricing.
tax authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
These payments are either offset against the income tax liability or establish an The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, in income tax receivable but do not reduce the provision for each case, a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for unrecognized tax benefits.
each combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not tax attributes, including net operating losses NOLs and tax believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly credits from Research and Development principally in the Republic impacts the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
of Ireland, the US, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany and the UK.
AtDecember 31, 2015 the Company had gross deferred tax At December 31, 2015 and 2014, provisions for product returns assets of $1,383.3million 2014: $1,003.4million, against which were $128million and $132million or 2% and 2% respectively, the Company had recorded valuation allowances of $416.1million ofnet product sales.
Historically, actual returns have not varied 2014: $324.7million and deferred tax liabilities of $3,052.1million significantly from the reserves provided.
iii Income Taxes The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is various factors.
Management is required to exercise judgment in required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on these deferred tax assets.
In assessing the need for a valuation whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, expectations The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated of future taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning to be realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the strategies.
A valuation allowance is established where there is possible outcomes.
In accounting for income tax uncertainties, anexpectation that on the balance of probabilities management management is required to make judgments in the determination considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax of the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances assets will not be realized.
If actual events differ from managements and information in respect of the tax position taken, together with estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the the estimates of amounts that the Company may be required to future, any changes to the valuation allowance could significantly pay in ultimate settlement with the tax authority.
impact the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns iv Litigation and legal proceedings are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
As Shire The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
The Companys operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed in very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other be substantial.
Shire develops its cumulative probability assessment proceedings to the consolidated financial statements set forth in to measure uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, this Annual Report.
The Company recognizes loss contingency experience and judgment, together with assistance from professional provisions for probable losses when management is able to advisors.
Original estimates are refined as additional information reasonably estimate the loss.
When the estimated loss lies within becomes known.
For example, in the year to December 31, 2015 arange, the Company records a loss contingency provision based the Company released certain provisions for uncertain tax on its best estimate of the probable loss.
If no particular amount positionstotaling $36.2million 2014: $221.1million, primarily within that range is a better estimate than any other amount, related to the conclusion of prior year audits in various territories.
Estimates of losses may be 126 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, and are vi Contingent consideration payable therefore refined each accounting period as additional information The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable becomes known.
In instances where the Company is unable at December 31, 2015 was $475.9million December 31, 2014: todevelop a reasonable estimate of loss, no loss contingency $629.9million.
provision is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known Contingent consideration payable represents i future milestones a loss contingency provision is recorded when a reasonable the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various estimate can be made.
These estimates are reviewed quarterly business combinations and ii future royalties payable as a result and changed when expectations are revised.
An outcome that of certain business combinations and licenses.
The amounts ultimately deviates from the Companys estimate may result in an additional payable by Shire are dependent upon i the successful achievement expense or credit in a future accounting period.
At December 31, of the relevant milestones and ii future net sales of the relevant 2015 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other products over the life of the milestone or royalty term respectively.
The Company re-measures its contingent consideration payable The outcomes of these proceedings are not always predictable toits then current fair value at each balance sheet date.
Gains and can be affected by various factors.
For those legal and other orlosses arising on changes to the fair value of contingent proceedings for which it is considered at least reasonably possible consideration payable are recorded within Integration and acquisition that a loss has been incurred, the Company discloses the possible costs in the Companys consolidated statement of income.
loss or range of possible loss in excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where such excess is both material The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration and estimable.
The estimation of the likelihood, amount and range payable using the income approach, based on a discounted cash of any loss arising from these proceedings requires significant flow method.
The discounted cash flow method uses significant judgment.
Any revisions in the Companys estimates, or outcomes unobservable Level 3 inputs as defined under US GAAP, including: upon settlement that deviate from the Companys best estimate the probability of, and period in which, the relevant milestone event may result in an additional expense or credit in a future is expected to be achieved: the amount of royalties that will be accounting period, which could materially impact the Companys payable based on forecast net sales of the relevant products: and financial condition or results of operations.
the discount rates to be applied in calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
Significant judgment is employed v Contingent consideration receivable from divestments of by the Company in developing these estimates and assumptions.
products or businesses If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the The Company is eligible to receive contingent consideration from extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Organogenesis and Noven in relation to the divestment of the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be Companys DERMAGRAFT business and DAYTRANA product, materially affected in the period of any such change of estimate.
At December 31, 2015 the Company has contingent consideration assets of $13.8million 2014: $15.9million.
vii Assets held for sale Assets held for sale comprise noncurrent assets or disposal Consideration receivable by the Company on the divestment of groups together with any liabilities, the carrying amounts of which product rights or businesses typically includes up-front receipts will be realized principally through a sale transaction expected to and or milestones and royalties which are contingent on the conclude within the next twelve months, rather than through outcome of future events with such milestones and royalties continued use.
being, for example, based upon the future sales performance ofthe divested product or business.
Contingent consideration At December 31, 2015 and 2014 the Company had no assets occasionally represents a significant proportion of the economic classified as held for sale.
value receivable by the Company for a divested product or Significant judgment is employed by the Company in assessing: business.
In these situations the Company initially recognizes this atwhat point all the held for sale presentation conditions are met contingent consideration as an asset at its divestment date fair for the disposal group: whether it is necessary to allocate goodwill value, with re-measurement of this asset to its then current fair tothe disposal group: and estimating both the fair value of the value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
disposal group and the incremental costs to transact a sale of The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration thedisposal group.
If actual events differ from managements receivable using the income approach, based on a discounted estimates, or to the extent that estimates of selling price or costs cash flow method.
This discounted cash flow approach uses to sell are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition significant unobservable Level 3 inputs as defined in US GAAP and results of operations could be affected in the period of any including: the probability weightings applied to different sales such change of estimate.
scenarios and related forecast future royalties receivable under scenarios developed by the Company: and the discount rate to beapplied in calculating the present value of these forecast future cash flows.
Significant judgment is employed by the Company indeveloping these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the periodof any such change of estimate.
Shire Annual Report 2015 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations The acquisition of NPS Pharma added GATTEX REVESTIVE, Proposed combination with Baxalta Incorporated Baxalta approved in the US and EU for the treatment of adults with Short On January 11, 2016 Shire announced that the Boards of Directors Bowel Syndrome SBS who are dependent on parenteral of Shire and Baxalta had agreed on the terms of a recommended support, a rare and potentially fatal gastrointestinal disorder and combination of Shire with Baxalta.
Under the terms of the agreement, NATPARA NATPAR approved in the US and indicated as an Baxalta shareholders will receive $18.00 in cash and 0.1482 Shire adjunct to calcium and vitamin D to control hypocalcemia in ADSs per Baxalta share.
Based on Shires closing ADS price on patients with HPT, a rare endocrine disease, to Shires portfolio January 8, 2016, this implies a total value of $45.57 per Baxalta ofcurrently marketed products.
share, representing an aggregate consideration of approximately The acquisition of NPS Pharma has been accounted for as a $32 billion.
business combination using the acquisition method.
The assets Baxalta is a global biopharmaceutical company that focuses on acquired and the liabilities assumed from NPS Pharma have been developing, manufacturing and commercializing therapies for recorded at their preliminary fair values at the date of acquisition, orphan diseases and underserved conditions in hematology, being February 21, 2015.
The Companys consolidated financial oncology and immunology.
statements include the results of NPS Pharma from February 21, 2015.
Closing of the transaction is subject to approval by Shire and The amount of NPS Pharmas post-acquisition revenues and Baxalta shareholders, certain regulatory approvals, redelivery pre-tax losses included in the Companys consolidated statement oftax opinions initially delivered at signing and other customary of income for the year to December 31, 2015 were $285.9million closing conditions and representations.
The transaction is a class and $96.7million respectively.
The pre-tax loss includes charges 1 transaction for Shire for the purposes of the UK Listing Rules relating to the unwind of inventory fair value adjustments of and requires the approval of Shire shareholders.
A shareholder $29.8million, intangible asset amortization of $260.3million circular, together with notice of the relevant shareholder meeting, andintegration costs of $90.1million.
will be distributed to Shire shareholders in due course.
The parties The purchase price allocation was finalized in the fourth quarter expect the transaction to close mid-2016.
The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the Acquisition of Dyax Corp. Dyax fairvalue of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including On January 22, 2016 Shire acquired all of the outstanding share measurement period adjustments recorded during 2015, capital of Dyax for $37.30 per share in cash.
Under the terms of isoutlined below: the merger agreement Dyax shareholders may receive additional Fair value value through a non-tradable contingent value right worth $4.00 $M per share, payable subject to FDA approval of DX-2930.
Assets Dyax was a publicly traded, Massachusetts-based rare disease Current assets: biopharmaceutical company primarily focused on the development of plasma kallikrein pKal inhibitors for the treatment of HAE.
Cash and cash equivalents 41.6 Dyaxs most advanced clinical program is SHP643 formerly Short-term investments 67.0 DX-2930, a Phase 3 program with the potential for improved Accounts receivable 33.4 efficacy and convenience for HAE patients.
SHP643 has received Inventories 89.4 Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, and Orphan Drug designations Other current assets 11.1 by the FDA and has also received Orphan Drug status in the EU.
Total current assets 242.5 Dyax also brings the marketed product, KALBITOR, a plasma kallikrein inhibitor for the treatment of acute attacks of HAE in Non-current assets: patients 12 years of age and older.
PP&E 4.8 Goodwill 1,551.0 The acquisition of Dyax will be accounted for as a business Other intangible assets combination using the acquisition method.
The preliminary acquisition-date fair value consideration is $6,330.0million, currently marketed products 4,640.0 comprising cash paid on closing of $5,934.0million and the royalty rights categorized as Other amortized intangible assets 353.0 preliminary fair value of the contingent value right of $396.0million Total assets 6,791.3 maximum payable $646.0million.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Dyax will be recorded at the date of Liabilities acquisition, at their fair value.
Shires consolidated financial Current liabilities: statements will reflect these fair values at, and the results of Accounts payable and other current liabilities 75.7 Dyaxwill be included in Shires consolidated statement of income Short-term debt 27.4 from, January 22, 2016.
As the initial accounting for the business Non-current liabilities: combination has not yet been completed, further disclosure relating to this acquisition will be included in the Companys Long-term debt, less current portion 78.9 Form10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2016.
Deferred tax liabilities 1,385.2 Other non-current liabilities 4.5 In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company expensed costs of $13.2million 2014: $nil relating to the acquisition of Dyax, which Total liabilities 1,571.7 have been recorded within integration and acquisition costs in the Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 5,219.6 Companys consolidated income statement.
Consideration Acquisition of NPS Pharma Cash consideration paid 5,219.6 On February 21, 2015 Shire completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding share capital of NPS Pharma.
The acquisition-date fair value of cash consideration paid on closing was $5,220million.
128 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information a Other intangible assets currently marketed products December 31, December 31, Other intangible assets totaling $4,640.0million relate to 2015 2014 intellectual property rights acquired for NPS Pharmas currently $M $M marketed products, primarily attributed to NATPARA NATPAR Revenues 6,446.6 6,246.1 andGATTEX REVESTIVE.
The fair value of the currently marketed products is and has been estimated using an income approach, Net income from continuing operations 1,293.6 2,950.7 based on the present value of incremental after tax cash flows Per share amounts: attributable to each separately identifiable intangible asset.
Net income from continuing operations pershare basic 219.1 502.9 The estimated useful lives of the NATPARA NATPAR and GATTEX Net income from continuing operations REVESTIVE intangible assets are 24 years, with amortization being pershare diluted 218.1 499.0 recorded on a straight-line basis.
The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the b Other intangible assets Royalty rights Other intangibles totaling $353.0million relate to the royalty rights following pro forma adjustments: arising from the collaboration agreements with Amgen, Janssen i an adjustment to decrease net income by $105.3million for and Kyowa Hakko Kirin.
Amgen markets cinacalcet HCl as SENSIPAR the year to December 31, 2014 to reflect acquisition costs in the US and as MIMPARA in the EU: Janssen Pharmaceuticals incurred by Shire and NPS Pharma, and increase net income markets tapentadol as Nucynta in the US: and Kyowa Hakko Kirin by $105.3million for the year to December 31, 2015 to markets cinacalcet HCI as REGPARA in Japan, Hong Kong, eliminate acquisition costs incurred: Malaysia, Macau, Singapore, and Taiwan.
NPS Pharma is entitled to royalties from the relevant net sales of these products.
ii an adjustment to decrease net income by $18.8million for the year to December 31, 2014 to reflect charges on the unwind The fair value of these royalty rights has been estimated using an of inventory fair value adjustments as acquisition date income approach, based on the present value of incremental after inventory is sold, and a corresponding increase in net income tax cash flows attributable to each royalty right.
for the year to December 31, 2015: The estimated useful lives of these royalty rights range from four iii an adjustment of $22.2million in the year to December 31, tofive years weighted average four years, with amortization being 2014 to reflect additional interest expense associated with the recorded on a straight-line basis.
drawdown of debt to partially finance the acquisition of NPS c Goodwill Pharma and the amortization of related deferred debt issuance costs: and Goodwill arising of $1,551.0million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from iv an adjustment to increase amortization expense by combining the operations of NPS Pharma with the operations of approximately $22.2million in the year to December 31, 2015 Shire, particularly those synergies expected to be realized due to and $177.0million in the year to December 31, 2014 related to Shires structure: intangible assets that do not qualify for separate amortization of the fair value of identifiable intangible assets recognition at the time of the acquisition: and the value of the acquired and the elimination of NPS Pharmas historical assembled workforce.
In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company expensed costs The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, of$144.5million 2014: $nil relating to the acquisition and whereapplicable.
post-acquisition integration of NPS Pharma, which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys Acquisition of Foresight Biotherapeutics, Inc. Foresight consolidated statement of income.
On July 30, 2015 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding share capital of Foresight, a privately owned company Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information incorporated in New York.
The acquisition-date fair value of cash The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents consideration, which was paid on closing, was $298.8million.
the combined results of the operations of Shire and NPS Pharma as if the acquisition of NPS Pharma had occurred as at January 1, With this acquisition, Shire acquired the global rights to SHP640 2014.
The unaudited pro forma financial information is not formerly FST-100, a Phase-3 ready therapy for the treatment of necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of infectious conjunctivitis, an ocular surface condition commonly operations actually would have been had the acquisition been referred to as pink eye.
completed at the date indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro The acquisition of Foresight has been accounted for as a business forma financial information does not purport to project the future combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and results of operations of the combined Company.
liabilities acquired from Foresight have been recorded at their preliminary fair values at the date of acquisition, being July 30, 2015.
The Companys consolidated financial statements include the results of Foresight from July 30, 2015.
The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending the determination of the fair values of certain assets and liabilities.
Thepurchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to the SHP640 IPR&D intangible asset $300.0million, net current assets assumed $3.0million, net non-current liabilities assumed including deferred tax liabilities $116.6million and goodwill $112.4million.
Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
Shire Annual Report 2015 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued Acquisition of ViroPharma Unaudited pro forma financial information to present the combined On January 24, 2014 Shire completed its acquisition of 100% of results of operations of Shire and Foresight is not provided as the the outstanding share capital of ViroPharma.
The acquisition-date impact of this acquisition is not material to the Companys results fair value of cash consideration paid on closing was $3,997million.
of operations for any period presented.
The acquisition of ViroPharma added CINRYZE to Shires portfolio Acquisition of Solpharm d. o. o Solpharm of currently marketed products.
CINRYZE is a leading brand for On September 28, 2015 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% the prophylactic treatment of Hereditary Angioedema HAE in of the outstanding share capital of Solpharm, a privately-owned adolescents and adults.
The acquisition-date fair value of The acquisition of ViroPharma has been accounted for as a consideration was $5.2million, comprising cash paid on closing of business combination using the acquisition method.
The assets $4.5million and the fair value of contingent consideration payable acquired and the liabilities assumed from ViroPharma have been of $0.7million maximum payable $3.1million dependent upon recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, being achievement of post-closing milestones.
The Companys consolidated financial statements allocated the purchase price to goodwill $4.4million and other include the results of ViroPharma from January 24, 2014. net assets $0.8million.
The purchase price allocation was finalized in the fourth quarter of Unaudited pro forma financial information to present the combined 2014.
The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the fair results of operations of Shire and Solpharm is not provided as the value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: impact of this acquisition is not material to the Companys results of operations for any period presented.
Acquisition date Acquisition of Meritage Pharma Inc. Meritage fair value Prior to the acquisition of ViroPharma Incorporated ViroPharma Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed $M by Shire see below, ViroPharma had entered into an exclusive development and option agreement with Meritage, a privately Assets owned US company focusing on developing oral budesonide Current assets: suspension OBS as a treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis.
Cash and cash equivalents 232.6 Under the terms of this agreement Meritage controlled and Short-term investments 57.8 conducted all related research up to achievement of pre-defined development success criteria at which point ViroPharma had the Accounts receivable 52.2 option to acquire Meritage.
Inventories 203.6 Deferred tax assets 100.7 On February 18, 2015, following the exercise of the purchase Purchased call option 346.7 option, Shire acquired all the outstanding equity of Meritage.
Theacquisition date fair value of the consideration totaled Other current assets 50.9 $166.9million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing of Total current assets 1,044.5 $74.8million and the fair value of contingent consideration payable Non-current assets: of $92.1million.
The maximum amount of contingent cash PP&E 24.7 consideration which may be payable by Shire in future periods Goodwill 1,655.5 is$175.0million dependent upon achievement of certain clinical Other intangible assets development and regulatory milestones.
Currently marketed products 2,320.0 With the Meritage acquisition, Shire has acquired the global rights In-Process Research and Development IPR&D 315.0 to Meritages Phase 3-ready compound, OBS now SHP621, for Other non-current assets 10.4 the treatment of adolescents and adults with eosinophilic Total assets 5,370.1 esophagitis.
The acquisition of Meritage has been accounted for as a business Liabilities combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and Current liabilities: liabilities assumed from Meritage have been recorded at their fair Accounts payable and other current liabilities 122.7 values at the date of acquisition, being February 18, 2015.
The Convertible bond 551.4 Companys consolidated financial statements and results of Non-current liabilities: operations include the results of Meritage from February 18, 2015.
Deferred tax liabilities 603.5 The purchase price allocation is final.
The purchase price has Other non-current liabilities 95.5 beenallocated to acquired SHP621 IPR&D intangible asset Total liabilities 1,373.1 $175.0million, net current assets assumed $5.5million, net non-current liabilities assumed including deferred tax liabilities Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 3,997.0 $45.9million and goodwill $32.3million.
Goodwill is not Consideration deductible for tax purposes.
Cash consideration paid 3,997.0 Unaudited pro forma financial information to present the combined results of operations of Shire and Meritage is not provided as the impact of this acquisition is not material to the Companys results of operations for any period presented.
130 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information a Other intangible assets currently marketed products Acquisition of Lumena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Lumena Other intangible assets totaled $2,320.0million at the date of On June 11, 2014 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of acquisition, relating to intellectual property rights acquired for theoutstanding share capital of Lumena, a privately owned US ViroPharmas then currently marketed products, primarily incorporated biopharmaceutical company.
The acquisition date fair attributed to CINRYZE, for the routine prophylaxis against HAE value of the consideration totaled $464.3million, comprising cash attacks in adolescent and adult patients.
Shire also obtained consideration paid on closing of $300.3million and the fair value intellectual property rights to three other commercialized products, of contingent consideration payable of $164million.
In the year to PLENADREN, an orphan drug for the treatment of adrenal December 31, 2015 Shire settled all future contingent milestones insufficiency in adults, BUCCOLAM, an oromucosal solution for payable for a one-time cash payment of $90 million.
the treatment of prolonged, acute, and convulsive seizures in This acquisition brought two novel, orally active therapeutic infants, toddlers, children and adolescents and VANCOCIN, an compounds SHP625 formerly LUM001 and SHP626 formerly oral capsule formulation for the treatment of C. difficile-associated LUM002.
Both compounds are inhibitors of the apical sodiumdiarrhea CDAD, which was divested by Shire in the third quarter dependent bile acid transport ASBT, which is primarily of 2014.
The fair value of currently marketed products has been responsible for recycling bile acids from the intestine to the liver.
estimated using an income approach, based on the present value Atacquisition date SHP625 was being investigated for the of incremental after tax cash flows attributable to each separately potential relief of the extreme itching associated with cholestatic identifiable intangible asset.
liver disease and three other indications.
In the year to December The estimated useful lives of the CINRYZE, PLENADREN and 31, 2015 Shire fully impaired the SHP625 IPR&D intangible asset BUCCOLAM intangible assets range from 10 to 23 years weighted see Note 13 for further details.
SHP626 is in development for the average 22 years, with amortization being recorded on a straighttreatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
The acquisition of Lumena has been accounted for as a business b Other intangible assets IPR&D combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and The IPR&D asset of $315.0million relates to maribavir now liabilities assumed from Lumena have been recorded at their fair SHP620, an investigational antiviral product for cytomegalovirus.
values at the date of acquisition, being June 11, 2014.
The The fair value of this IPR&D asset was estimated based on an Companys consolidated financial statements and results of income approach, using the present value of incremental after tax operations include the results of Lumena from June 11, 2014. cash flows expected to be generated by this development project The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets $467million, net current assets assumed $52.6million, including employed in this project.
The estimated cash flows have been cash of $46.3million, net non-current liabilities assumed including probability adjusted to take into account the stage of completion deferred tax liabilities $169.9million and goodwill $114.6million.
and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding the future Goodwill arising of $114.6million is not deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition of Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd. Fibrotech The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely On July 4, 2014 Shire completed its acquisition of Fibrotech, an completion of the acquired IPR&D project include the ability to Australian biopharmaceutical company developing a new class confirm the efficacy of the technology based on the data from oforally available drugs with a novel mechanism of action which clinical trials, and obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals as hasthe potential to address both the inflammatory and fibrotic well as other risks as described in this Annual Report.
The valuation components of disease processes.
The acquisition of Fibrotech of IPR&D has been based on information available at the time of isexpected to strengthen the Companys growing and innovative the acquisition and information obtained during the measurement portfolio targeting renal and fibrotic diseases, and leverage existing period and on expectations and assumptions that i have been renal capabilities.
deemed reasonable by the Companys management and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would The acquisition date fair value of the consideration totaled be available to a market participant.
However, no assurance can $122.6million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing be given that the assumptions and events associated with such of$75.6million and the fair value of contingent consideration assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, the actual cash payable of $47million.
The maximum amount of contingent cash flows may vary from forecast future cash flows.
consideration which may be payable by Shire in future periods is $482.5million dependent upon achievement of certain clinical The estimated probability adjusted after tax cash flows used in development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
fairvaluing other intangible assets have been discounted at rates ranging from 9.5% to 10.0%.
The acquisition of Fibrotech has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and c Goodwill liabilities assumed from Fibrotech have been recorded at their Goodwill arising of $1,655.5million, which is not deductible for tax fairvalues at the date of acquisition being July 4, 2014.
The purposes, includes the expected operational synergies that will Companys consolidated financial statements and results of result from combining the commercial operations of ViroPharma operations include the results of Fibrotech from July 4, 2014. with those of Shire: other synergies expected to be realized due to Shires structure: intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition at the time of the acquisition: and the value of the assembled workforce.
Shire Annual Report 2015 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued On October 16, 2015 the FDA requested an additional clinical The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D study as part of a complete response letter to the NDA.
The FDA $11million, net current assets $1.4million and goodwill also requested more information related to product quality.
Goodwill arising of $110.2million is not deductible October 27, 2015, Shire announced positive topline results from for tax purposes.
Goodwill generated from the acquisition was the OPUS-3 trial.
These data showed OPUS-3 met the primary primarily attributed to acquired scientific knowledge in fibrotic endpoint of significantly improving patient-reported symptoms of diseases and the potential to optimize the novel mechanism of DED from baseline to day 84 p 0.0007.
Additionally, OPUS-3 met action to other fibrotic conditions.
the secondary endpoints of symptom improvement from baseline to days 14 and 42 p 0.0001 for both endpoints.
Shire used these Other Acquisitions data as part of the resubmission of the NDA on January 22, 2016.
On July 9, 2014 Shire acquired BIKAM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On February 4, 2016, Shire announced that the FDA had BIKAM, a US-based biopharmaceutical company with preacknowledged receipt of the resubmission of the NDA.
The FDA clinical compounds that could provide an innovative approach determined that the submission was a complete response and has totreating autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa adRP.
In assigned a 6-month review period for the NDA and a PDUFA date thethird quarter of 2014 Shire also acquired certain assets and of July 22, 2016. employees related to the production of BUCCOLAM from its previous contract manufacturer SCM Pharma Limited SCM.
The acquisition of SARcode has been accounted for as a business Theaggregate acquisition date fair value of the consideration for combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and these two acquisitions was $17.9million, comprising cash paid liabilities assumed from SARcode have been recorded at their onclosing of $12.1million and the fair value of contingent fairvalues at the date of acquisition, being April 17, 2013.
The consideration payable in respect of BIKAM of $5.8million.
In Companys consolidated financial statements and results of respect of BIKAM following achievement and payment of the first operations include the results of SARcode from April 17, 2013. development milestone in the year ended December 31, 2015, The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in themaximum contingent consideration which may now be payable respect of SHP606 $412million, net current liabilities assumed by Shire in future periods is $89.5million contingent upon the $8.2million, net non-current liabilities assumed, including achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial deferred tax liabilities $122.4million and goodwill $86.6million.
This acquisition resulted in goodwill of $86.6million, which is not In connection with these two acquisitions, Shire has recorded deductible for tax purposes.
Goodwill includes the value of the $1million in current assets, $4.8million in non-current assets and assembled workforce and the related scientific expertise in $12.1million in goodwill.
ophthalmology which allows for potential expansion into a new therapeutic area.
Acquisition of SARcode Bioscience Inc. SARcode On April 17, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of the Acquisition of Premacure AB Premacure outstanding share capital of SARcode.
The acquisition date fair On March 8, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of value of consideration totaled $368million, comprising cash theoutstanding share capital of Premacure, a privately-owned consideration paid on closing of $151million and the acquisition Swedish biotechnology company.
The acquisition date fair value date fair value of contingent consideration payable of $217million.
ofthe consideration totaled $140.2million, comprising cash Following top-line Phase 3 study results in December 2013, the consideration paid on closing of $30.6million, and the fair value of maximum amount of contingent cash consideration which may contingent consideration payable of $109.6million.
The maximum now be payable by Shire in future periods is $225million amount of contingent cash consideration which may be payable dependent upon achievement of certain net sales milestones.
by Shire in future periods, dependent upon the successful completion of certain development and commercial milestones, This acquisition brought the global rights of lifitegrast now is$169million.
Shire will also pay royalties on relevant net sales.
SHP606 into Shires portfolio which, at acquisition date, was in Phase 3 development for the treatment of DED.
Premacure was developing a protein replacement therapy SHP607 formerly referred to as PREMIPLEX currently in Phase 2 Top-line results from OPUS-2, a Phase 3 efficacy and safety development, for the prevention of Retinopathy of Prematurity studyof 5.0% SHP606 ophthalmic solution, were announced on ROP.
ROP is a rare and potentially blinding eye disorder that December 6, 2013.
On April 30, 2014 Shire announced top-line primarily affects premature infants and is one of the most common results from the prospective randomized, double-masked, causes of visual loss in childhood.
Together, the acquisitions of placebo-controlled SONATA trial which indicated no ocular or SARcode and Premacure build Shires presence in the ophthalmic drug-related serious adverse events.
Following a meeting with the therapeutic area.
In December 2014 Shire received notification that FDA, on May 16, 2014 Shire announced that it intended to submit SHP607 was granted fast Track designation by the FDA.
In an NDA for SHP606 in the first quarter of 2015 as a treatment for addition, SHP607 has been granted orphan drug designation in signs and symptoms for DED in adults.
On April 9, 2015 Shire both the US and EU.
A Phase 2 clinical trial completed enrollment announced that the FDA had accepted the NDA and had granted in December 2015. the NDA Priority Review designation.
The FDA set an action date of October 25, 2015, based on the Prescription Drug User Fee Act The acquisition of Premacure has been accounted for as a V PDUFA.
The assets and the liabilities assumed from Premacure have been recorded attheir fair values at the date of acquisition, being March 8, 2013.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of operations include the results of Premacure from March 8, 2013.
132 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company incurred respect of SHP607 $151.8million, net current liabilities assumed reorganization costs totaling $97.9million respectively, relating to $11.7million, net non-current liabilities assumed, including employee involuntary termination benefits and other reorganization deferred tax liabilities $29.5million and goodwill $29.6million.
Reorganization costs of $343.4million have been incurred This acquisition resulted in goodwill of $29.6million, which is not since the reorganization began in May 2013.
The One Shire deductible for tax purposes.
reorganization is now substantially complete.
The Company estimates that further costs in respect of the One Shire Acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. Lotus Tissue Repair reorganization of approximately $50million will be expensed On February 12, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of asincurred during the first half of 2016. the outstanding share capital of Lotus Tissue Repair, a privatelyowned US biotechnology company.
The acquisition date fair The liability for reorganization costs arising from the One Shire valueof consideration totaled $174.2million, comprising cash business reorganization at December 31, 2015 is as follows: consideration paid on closing of $49.4million, and the fair value of Opening Amount Closing contingent consideration payable of $124.8million.
The maximum liability at charged liability at amount of contingent cash consideration which may be payable January 1, to rePaid December 31, by Shire in future periods is $275million.
The amount of 2015 organization Utilized 2015 contingentcash consideration ultimately payable by Shire is $M $M $M $M dependent upon achievement of certain pre-clinical and clinical Involuntary termination development milestones.
benefits 38.0 65.4 88.4 15.0 Lotus Tissue Repair was developing a proprietary recombinant Other reorganization form of human collagen Type VII rC7 as the first and only costs 32.5 22.4 10.1 intravenous protein replacement therapy currently being 38.0 97.9 110.8 25.1 investigated for the treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB.
DEB is a devastating orphan disease for which there is At December 31, 2015 the closing reorganization cost liability was nocurrently approved treatment option other than palliative care.
recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses.
The acquisition added to Shires pipeline a late-stage pre-clinical 6.
Integration and acquisition costs product for the treatment of DEB with global rights.
In the year toDecember 31, 2015 Shire fully impaired the SHP608 IPR&D For the year to December 31, 2015 Shire recorded net integration and acquisition costs of $39.8million.
The net integration and intangible asset see Note 13 for further details.
acquisition costs principally comprises costs related to the The acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair has been accounted for acquisition and integration of NPS Pharma, Viropharma, Dyax and asa business combination using the acquisition method.
The the proposed combination with Baxalta $189.7million, offset by assets and the liabilities assumed from Lotus Tissue Repair have anet credit relating to the change in the fair value of contingent been recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, consideration liabilities $149.9million.
This net credit principally beingFebruary 12, 2013.
The Companys consolidated financial relates to the acquisition of Lumena, reflecting the agreement in statements and results of operations include the results of Lotus the third quarter of 2015 to settle all future contingent milestones Tissue Repair from February 12, 2013. payable to former Lumena shareholders for a one-time cash payment of $90million and the acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair, The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in Inc. reflecting a lower probability of success for the SHP608 asset respect of rC7, now SHP608 $176.7million, net current assets for the treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB assumed $6.8million, net non-current liabilities assumed, asa result of certain preclinical toxicity findings see note 13 for including deferred tax liabilities $63.4million and goodwill further details.
This acquisition resulted in goodwill of $54.1million, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
In the year to December 31, 2014 Shire recorded integration and acquisition costs of $158.8million, comprised of $144.1million 5.
Reorganization costs relating to the acquisition and integration of ViroPharma and a One Shire business reorganization netcharge of $14.7million relating to the change in fair value of On May 2, 2013, the Company initiated the reorganization of its contingent consideration liabilities principally in relation to the business to integrate the three divisions into a simplified One Shire acquisition of SARcode Bioscience Inc. SARcode, reflecting organization in order to drive future growth and innovation.
Shires increased confidence in the SHP606 asset, offset by In 2014 certain aspects of the One Shire program were temporarily credits in relation to the acquisition of FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. put on hold due to AbbVies offer for Shire, which was terminated reflecting the decision to place the Phase 2 clinical trial for SHP602 in October 2014.
Subsequent to the termination of AbbVies offer, on clinical hold.
Shire announced on November 10, 2014 its plans to relocate over 500 positions to Lexington, Massachusetts from its Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania, site and establish Lexington as the Companys US operational headquarters in continuation of the One Shire efficiency program.
This relocation will streamline business globally through two principal locations, Massachusetts and Switzerland, with support from regional and country-based offices around theworld.
Shire Annual Report 2015 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Prepaid expenses and other current assets Accounts receivable at December 31, 2015 of $1,201.2million December 31, December 31, December 31, 2014: $1,035.1million, are stated at the invoiced 2015 2014 amount and net of provision for discounts and doubtful accounts $M $M of $55.8million December 31, 2014: $48.5million.
Prepaid expenses 35.6 36.9 Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: Income tax receivable 73.6 121.5 Value added taxes receivable 18.2 13.8 2015 2014 Other current assets 70.0 49.3 $M $M 197.4 221.5 As at January 1, 48.5 47.9 Provision charged to operations 424.2 338.2 11.
Property, plant and equipment, net Provision utilization 416.9 337.6 December 31, December 31, As at December 31, 55.8 48.5 2015 2014 $M $M At December 31, 2015 accounts receivable included $79.0million Land and buildings 703.1 717.1 December 31, 2014: $59.0million related to royalty income.
Office furniture, fittings and equipment 529.8 494.2 8.
Inventories Warehouse, laboratory and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Inventories  297.6 290.0 comprise: Assets under construction 93.7 43.9 December 31, December 31, 1,624.2 1,545.2 2015 2014 Less: Accumulated depreciation 796.1 707.7 $M $M 828.1 837.5 Finished goods 184.9 136.0 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2015 and Work-in-progress 302.0 305.3 2014 was $138.5million and $163.5million respectively.
Results of discontinued operations 2015 2014 Following the divestment of the Companys DERMAGRAFT $M $M business in January 2014, the operating results associated with Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 4,147.8 2,474.9 the DERMAGRAFT business have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income for all periods In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company completed the presented.
In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company acquisitions of NPS Pharma, Meritage, Foresight and Solpharm recorded a loss from discontinued operations of $34.1million net which resulted in aggregate goodwill of $1,700.1million see of tax of $18.9million, primarily relating to a change in estimate in Note4 for details.
relation to reserves for onerous leases retained by the Company.
December 31, December 31, In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company recorded a gain 2015 2014 from discontinued operations of $122.7million net of tax of $M $M $211.3million.
The gain from discontinued operations in the year to December 31, 2014 includes a tax credit of $211.3million As at January 1, 2,474.9 624.6 primarily driven by a tax benefit arising following a reorganization Acquisitions 1,700.1 1,890.5 of the former Regenerative Medicine business undertaken in the Foreign currency translation 27.2 40.2 fourth quarter of 2014, associated with the divestment of the As at December 31, 4,147.8 2,474.9 DERMAGRAFT business in the first quarter of 2014.
This gain waspartially offset by costs associated with the divestment of the DERMAGRAFT business, including a loss on re-measurement of contingent consideration receivable from Organogenesis to its fairvalue.
134 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13.
Other intangible assets, net statistically significant reduction in mean serum bile acid levels from baseline.
Following receipt of these results, the Company December 31, December 31, also updated its revenue and profitability forecasts for ALGS 2015 2014 andPFIC.
$M $M Amortized intangible assets As a result of these impairment indicators, the Company reviewed Intellectual property rights acquired the recoverability of its SHP625 IPR&D asset and recorded forcurrently marketed products 9,371.9 4,816.9 impairment charges totaling $467million within R&D expenses 1 inthe consolidated statement of income in 2015, to record the Other intangible assets 375.0 30.0 SHP625 IPR&D asset to its revised fair value of $nil.
This fair 9,746.9 4,846.9 valuewas based on the revised discounted cash flow forecasts Unamortized intangible assets associated with SHP625, which included a reduced probability Intellectual property rights acquired ofachieving regulatory approval.
forIPR&D 1,362.0 1,550.0 For SHP608, preclinical toxicity findings in the second quarter 11,108.9 6,396.9 2 of2015 have led to a significant reduction in the probability of Less: Accumulated amortization 1,935.6 1,462.5 achieving regulatory approval of this asset.
As a result, the 9,173.3 4,934.4 Company recorded an impairment charge of $176.7million within 1 R&D expenses in the consolidated statement of income to fully Other intangible assets primarily comprises of royalty right assets acquired with NPS Pharma.
write off the SHP608 IPR&D asset.
2 Comprising $1,852.1million of accumulated amortization for intellectual property rights acquired for currently marketed products and $83.5million The fair values of the related contingent consideration liabilities forother intangible assets.
arising from the Lumena and Lotus Tissue Repair acquisitions through which Shire acquired SHP625 and SHP608 respectively The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the have also been reduced, resulting in a credit of $203.2million year to December 31, 2015 and 2014 is shown in the table below: being recorded in Integration and acquisition costs for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Other intangible assets In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company identified 2015 2014 indicators of impairment in respect of its SHP602 iron chelating $M $M agent for the treatment of iron overload secondary to chronic As at January 1, 4,934.4 2,312.6 transfusion and SHP613 for the treatment of improvement in Acquisitions 5,474.9 3,118.6 patency of arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients IPR&D Divestment of non-core products 17.3 assets.
The Company therefore reviewed the recoverability of its Amortization charged 498.7 243.8 SHP602 and SHP613 IPR&D assets and recorded an impairment Impairment charges 643.7 190.3 charge of $166.0million and $22.0million, respectively, within R&D expenses in the consolidated statement of income to record the Foreign currency translation 93.6 45.4 IPR&D assets to their revised fair value.
As at December 31, 9,173.3 4,934.4 Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company acquired respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2015 will be intangible assets totaling $5,475million, primarily relating to the approximately $465million for each of the five years to December fairvalue of intangible assets for currently marketed products and 31, 2020.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by royalty right assets acquired with NPS Pharma of $4,993million various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product and IPR&D assets of $475million acquired with Meritage and rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of acquired Foresight see Note 4 for further details.
IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
The Company reviews its intangible assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances suggest that their carrying 14.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses value may not be recoverable.
In the year to December 31, 2015 December 31, December 31, the Company identified indicators of impairment in respect of its 2015 2014 SHP625 for the treatment of cholestatic liver disease, and $M $M SHP608 for the treatment of DEB IPR&D assets.
Trade accounts payable and The indicators of impairment related to SHP625 in 2015 included accruedpurchases 336.3 247.7 the results of three Phase 2 studies, comprising a 13-week study Accrued rebates Medicaid 632.2 563.9 of 20 paediatric patients with Alagille syndrome ALGS, a 13 Accrued rebates Managed care 350.2 318.2 week, double blind, placebo-controlled trial in combination with Sales return reserve 128.3 131.7 ursodeoxycholic acid UDCA for patients with Primary Biliary Accrued bonuses 152.0 150.7 Cirrhosis PBC, and preliminary results from a 72 week open label Phase 2 study in Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 102.5 109.1 PFIC.
Although both the ALGS and PBC trials indicated a reduction in bile serum acids in the SHP625 treated group, neither R&D accruals 65.3 88.3 of these trials met their primary or secondary endpoints.
The Other accrued expenses 283.8 299.8 interim analysis in the PFIC trial was based on the first 12 subjects 2,050.6 1,909.4 who completed 13 weeks of treatment per protocol.
There was no Shire Annual Report 2015 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Other current liabilities Interest on any loans made under the RCF is payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, December 31, December 31, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed 2015 2014 with the lenders.
The interest rate for the RCF is: LIBOR or, in $M $M relation to any revolving loan in euro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30% per Income taxes payable 73.5 16.2 subject to change depending upon i the prevailing ratio of Net Value added taxes 21.8 16.6 Debt to EBITDA each as defined in the RCF in respect of the Contingent consideration payable 19.5 194.5 most recently completed financial year or financial half year Other current liabilities 29.2 35.2 and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default inrespect of the financial covenants or the failure to provide a 144.0 262.5 compliance certificate.
Borrowings Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35% of the December 31, December 31, applicable margin on available commitments under the RCF for 2015 2014 theavailability period applicable thereto and ii a utilization fee $M $M equal to a 0.10% per year of the aggregate of all outstanding loans Short term borrowings: up to an aggregate base currency amount equal to $700million, Borrowings under the Revolving Credit b 0.15% per year of the amount by which the aggregate base Facilities Agreement the RCF 750.0 currency amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $700million Borrowings under the January 2015 butis equal to or less than $1,400million and c 0.30% per year FacilityAgreement 750.0 ofthe amount by which the aggregate base currency amount of alloutstanding loans exceeds $1,400million.
Borrowings under the 2013 FacilitiesAgreement 850.0 The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, Secured non-recourse debts 11.5 covenants and events of default, including requirements that 1,511.5 850.0 Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most Long term borrowings: recently ended 12-month relevant period each as defined in the RCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, following an Secured non-recourse debts 69.9 acquisition fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may on a once only basis 1,581.4 850.0 elect to increase this ratio to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed b 5.0:1 in respect of the Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement firstrelevant period following the relevant period in which the On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2,100million acquisition was completed and c 4.5:1 in respect of the second revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with a number of relevant period following the relevant period in which the acquisition financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services was completed, and ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest for the most PLC trading as Santander Global Banking and Markets, Bank of recently ended 12-month relevant period each as defined in the America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, RCF must not be less than 4.0:1.
Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation The RCF restricts, subject to certain exceptions, Shires ability acted as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and DNB toincur additional financial indebtedness, grant security over Bank ASA, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Credit Suisse itsassets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may AG, London Branch, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S. A. Goldman require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Bank change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for International Limited acted as arrangers.
Shire is an original schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
borrower and original guarantor under the RCF.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that become Events of default under the RCF include, subject to customary additional borrowers under the RCF.
As at December 31, 2015 grace periods and materiality thresholds: i non-payment of any theCompany utilized $750million of the RCF.
amounts due under the finance documents as defined in the RCF, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2020, may be misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to applied towards financing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, The RCF incorporates a $250million US dollar and euro swingline v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries that are parties to the RCF to perform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a party to the RCF repudiates such agreement or other finance document, among others.
The RCF is governed by English law.
136 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Term Loan Facilities Agreement schemes.
In addition, in certain circumstances and subject to January 2016 Facilities Agreement certain broad exceptions, the net cash proceeds of disposals and On January 11, 2016, Shire as original guarantor and original certain issues, loans, sales or offerings of debt securities by any borrower, entered into, an $18.0 billion bridge facilities agreement member of Shires Group must be applied in cancellation of the with, among others, Barclays Bank PLC Barclays, and Morgan available commitments under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement Stanley Bank International Limited, acting as mandated lead and, if applicable, mandatory prepayment of any loans made arrangers and bookrunners the January 2016 Facilities Agreement.
under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement.
The January 2016 Facilities Agreement comprises two credit Events of default under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement facilities: i a $13.0 billion term loan facility which, subject to a one include, subject to customary grace periods and materiality year extension option exercisable at Shires option, matures on thresholds: i non-payment of any amounts due under the finance January 11, 2017 January 2016 Facility A and ii a $5.0 billion documents as defined in the January 2016 Facilities Agreement, revolving loan facility which, subject to a one year extension ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material optionexercisable at Shires option, matures on January 11, 2017 misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to January 2016 Facility B. Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, any of its subsidiaries that become additional borrowers under the v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse January 2016 Facilities Agreement.
As of February 23, 2016, the changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition January 2016 Facilities Agreement was undrawn.
of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any January 2016 Facility A may be used to finance the cash successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries consideration payable in respect of the proposed combination that are parties to the January 2016 Facilities Agreement to perform withBaxalta and certain costs related to the proposed combination.
their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any successor January 2016 Facility B may be used to finance the redemption of parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a party to the all or part of Baxaltas senior notes upon completion of the January 2016 Facilities Agreement repudiates the January 2016 proposed combination.
Facilities Agreement repudiates the January 2016 Facilities Agreement or any other finance document, among others.
Interest on any loans made under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement will be payable on the last day of each interest period, The January 2016 Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
which may be one week or one, two, three or six months, or as November 2015 Facilities Agreement otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to On November 2, 2015, Shire as original guarantor and original the January 2016 Facilities Agreement is LIBOR plus 1.25 percent borrower entered into a $5.6 billion facilities agreement with, per annum, increasing by: i 0.25 percent per annum on July 11, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited and 2016 and on each subsequent date falling at three month intervals Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch acting as mandated lead thereafter until and excluding April 11, 2017 and ii 0.50 percent arrangers and bookrunners the November 2015 Facilities per annum on April 11, 2017 and on each subsequent date falling Agreement.
The November 2015 Facilities Agreement comprises at three month intervals thereafter.
three credit facilities: i a $1.0 billion term loan facility which, Shire shall also pay a commitment fee on the available but unutilized subject to a one year extension option exercisable at Shires commitments under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement for the option, matures on November 2, 2016 November 2015 Facility availability period applicable to each facility.
With effect from first A, ii a $2.2 billion amortizing term loan facility which matures on utilization, the commitment fee rate will be 35percent of the November 2, 2017 November 2015 Facility B and iii a $2.4 applicable margin.
Before first utilization, the commitment fee rate billion amortizing term loan facility which matures on November 2, shall be increased in stages from 10 percent to 35 percent of the 2018 November 2015 Facility C. applicable margin over the period to 11 May, 2016.
As of December 31, 2015, the November 2015 Facilities The January 2016 Facilities Agreement includes customary Agreement was undrawn.
In January 2016 the November 2015 representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, Facilities Agreement was utilized in full to finance the purchase including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of Dyax and certain in respect of the most recently ended 12-month relevant period, costs related to the acquisition.
each as defined in the January 2016 Facilities Agreement, Interest on any loans made under the November 2015 Facilities mustnot, at any time, exceed 3.5:1, except that following the Agreement is payable on the last day of each interest period, combination with Baxalta, or any other acquisition fulfilling certain which may be one week or one, two, three or six months, or as criteria, Shire may elect on a once only basis to increase this ratio otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable is to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was LIBOR plus, in the case of November 2015 Facility A, 0.55% per completed, b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant period following annum, in the case of November 2015 Facility B, 0.65% per annum the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and and, in the case of November 2015 Facility C, 0.75% per annum, c 4.5:1 in respect of the second relevant period following the ineach case until delivery of the first compliance certificate required relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, and to be delivered after the date of the November 2015 Facilities ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest, for the most recently ended Agreement and is subject to change thereafter depending on 12-month relevant period each as defined in the January 2016 i the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1. theNovember 2015 Facilities Agreement in respect of the most The January 2016 Facilities Agreement restricts, subject to recently completed financial year or financial half year and ii the certainexceptions, Shires ability to incur additional financial occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide loans grant the financial covenants or failure to provide a compliance certificate.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and analogous Shire Annual Report 2015 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Borrowings continued The January 2015 Facility Agreement was available to finance the The November 2015 Facilities Agreement includes customary purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, Pharma including certain related costs.
On September 28, 2015 including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA the Company reduced the January 2015 Facility Agreement by in respect of the most recently ended 12-month relevant period, $100million.
As at December 31, 2015 the January 2015 Facility each as defined in the November 2015 Facilities Agreement, must Agreement was fully utilized in the amount of $750million.
In 2016 not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1, except that following an acquisition and at various points thereafter, the Company canceled parts of fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may elect on a once only basis to the January 2015 Facility Agreement.
On February 22, 2016, the increase this ratio to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the Company repaid in full the remaining balance of $100 million.
acquisition was completed, b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant 2013 Facilities Agreement period following the relevant period in which the acquisition was On November 11, 2013, Shire entered into a $2,600million facilities completed and c 4.5:1 in respect of the second relevant period agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International following the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, Limited acting as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner and ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest in respect of the most the2013 Facilities Agreement.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement recently ended 12 month relevant period, each as defined in the comprised two credit facilities: i a $1,750million term loan facility November 2015 Facilities Agreement, must not be less than 4.0:1. and ii an $850million term loan facility.
The November 2015 Facilities Agreement restricts, subject to certain On December 13, 2013 and at various points thereafter, the exceptions, Shires ability to incur additional financial indebtedness, Company canceled parts of the 2013 Facilities Agreement.
grant security over its assets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, OnSeptember 28, 2015 the Company repaid in full the remaining any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation balance of $350million under the 2013 Facilities Agreement.
if there is a change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
Secured Non-recourse Debts Prior to the acquisition by Shire, NPS Pharma had: Events of default under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement include, subject to customary grace periods and materiality partially monetized rights to receive future royalty payments from thresholds: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Amgens sales of SENSIPAR and MIMPARA through the issuance financedocuments as defined in the November 2015 Facilities of $145million of non-recourse debt that was both serviced and Agreement, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material secured by SENSIPAR and MIMPARA royalty revenue: misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to sold to DRI Capital Inc. DRI certain rights to receive up to pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, $96million of future royalty payments arising from Kyowa Hakko v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse Kirins sales of REGPARA and granted DRI a security interest in changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition the license agreement with Kyowa Hakko Kirin, certain patents of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any and other intellectual property related to REGPARA which DRI successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries would be entitled to enforce in the event of default by NPS that are parties to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement to Pharma: and perform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any partially monetized PTH-184 now marketed as NATPARA successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a through an agreement with an affiliate of DRI pursuant to which party to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement repudiates the NPS Pharma, its licensees and its predecessors in interest, are November 2015 Facilities Agreement or any other finance obligated to pay up to $125million royalties on sales of PTH-184.
Additionally, NPS Pharma granted DRI a security interest in The November 2015 Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
certain patents and other intellectual property related to PTH 1-84 which DRI would be entitled to enforce in the event of January 2015 Facility Agreement default by NPS Pharma.
On January 11, 2015, Shire entered into an $850million term facility agreement with, among others, Citigroup Global Markets Following the acquisition of NPS Pharma the Company has Limited acting as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner the assumed these secured non-recourse debt obligations.
January 2015 Facility Agreement with an original maturity date of In May 2015 the Company notified Amgen that it intended to January 10, 2016.
The maturity date was subsequently extended repayin full the remaining non-recourse debt owed to Amgen.
to July 11, 2016 in line with the provisions within the January 2015 Therepayment was effected on May 15, 2015 by Amgen Facility Agreement allowing the maturity date to be extended withholding certain royalties that were due to the Company from twice, at Shires option, by six months on each occasion.
SENSIPAR and MIMPARA sales in the first quarter of 2015.
As at December 31, 2015 $11.5million has been included within Short-term borrowings, and $69.9million has been included within Long-term borrowings in respect of the remaining obligations to DRI.
Short-term uncommitted lines of credit Credit lines Shire has access to various Credit lines from a number of banks which provide flexibility to short-term cash management procedures.
These Credit lines can be withdrawn by the banks atany time.
The Credit lines are not relied upon for core liquidity.
Asat December 31, 2015 these Credit lines were not utilized.
138 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17.
Other non-current liabilities As of December 31, 2015 Shire had entered into various other collaborative and out-licensing arrangements under which the December 31, December 31, Company has out-licensed certain product or intellectual property 2015 2014 rights for consideration such as up-front payments, development $M $M milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
In some Income taxes payable 195.8 199.2 ofthese arrangements Shire and the licensee are both actively Contingent consideration payable 456.4 435.4 involved in the development and commercialization of the licensed Other non-current liabilities 146.6 102.1 product and have exposure to risks and rewards dependent on itscommercial success.
Under the terms of these collaborative 798.8 736.7 and out-licensing arrangements, the Company may receive development milestone payments up to an aggregate amount 18.
Commitments and contingencies of$32million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount a Leases of$43million.
The receipt of these substantive milestones is Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at uncertain and contingent on the achievement of certain development December 31, 2015 are presented below: milestones or the achievement of a specified level of annual net sales by the licensee.
In the year to December 31, 2015 Shire Operating received cash in respect of up-front and milestone payments leases totaling $19.6million 2014: $2.2million.
In the year to December 31, $M 2015 Shire recognized milestone income of $8.9million 2016 51.5 2014:$16.7million in other revenues and $51.0million 2017 40.8 2014:$46.5million in product sales for shipment of product 2018 34.6 tothe relevant licensee.
2019 30.2 d Commitments 2020 29.4 i Clinical testing Thereafter 185.8 At December 31, 2015 the Company had committed to pay 372.3 approximately $490million December 31, 2014: $382million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain Thetiming of these payments is dependent upon actual services equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease performed by the organizations as determined by patient and rental expense amounted to $40.7million and $32.9million enrollment levels and related activities.
forthe year to December 31, 2015, and 2014 respectively, which ispredominately included in SG&A expenses in the Companys ii Contract manufacturing consolidated income statement.
At December 31, 2015 the Company had committed to pay approximately $325million December 31, 2014: $384million in b Letters of credit and guarantees respect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects to pay At December 31, 2015 the Company had irrevocable standby $101million of these commitments in 2016. letters of credit and guarantees with various banks and insurance companies totaling $48.0million being the contractual amounts, iii Other purchasing commitments providing security for the Companys performance of various At December 31, 2015 the Company had committed to pay obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the approximately $485million December 31, 2014: $265million for recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating to commitments.
The Company expects to pay $459million of these commitments in 2016. c Collaborative and other licensing arrangements Details of significant updates in collaborative and other licensing iv Investment commitments arrangements are included below: At December 31, 2015 the Company had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts On September 1, 2015 Shire and Sangamo BioSciences, Inc. totaling $22million December 31, 2014: $67million which may Sangamo agreed to revise the collaboration and license allbe payable in 2016, depending on the timing of capital calls.
agreement originally entered into in January 2012 to expedite the Theinvestment commitments include additional funding to certain development of ZFP Therapeutics for hemophilia A and B and VIEs of which Shire is not the primary beneficiary.
Under the revised terms, Shire has returned to Sangamo the exclusive world-wide rights to gene targets for v Capital commitments thedevelopment, clinical testing and commercialization of ZFP At December 31, 2015 the Company had committed to spend Therapeutics for hemophilia A and B, and has retained rights $60million December 31, 2014: $3million on capital projects.
andwill continue to develop ZFP Therapeutic clinical leads for Huntingtons disease and a ZFP Therapeutic for one additional gene target.
Each company will be responsible for expenses associated with its own programs and will reimburse the other for any ongoing services provided.
Sangamo has granted Shire a right of first negotiation to license the hemophilia A and B programs.
Nomilestone payments will be made on any program and each company will pay certain royalties to the other on commercial sales up to a specified maximum cap.
Shire Annual Report 2015 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Commitments and contingencies continued LIALDA e Legal and other proceedings In May 2010, Shire was notified that Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, The Company expenses legal costs as they are incurred.
Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
District Court for the District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
A Markman a loss contingency provision based on its best estimate of the hearing took place on January 29, 2015 and a Markman ruling was probable loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better issued on July 28, 2015.
A trial is scheduled to take place starting estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses may be developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, and are therefore refined each accounting In February 2012, Shire was notified that Osmotica Pharmaceutical period as additional information becomes known.
In instances Corporation Osmotica had submitted an ANDA under the where the Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic ofloss, no loss contingency provision is recorded at that time.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a Asinformation becomes known a loss contingency provision is lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of Georgia recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
A Markman hearing took place on August 22, are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when 2013 and a Markman ruling was issued on September 25, 2014. expectations are revised.
An outcome that deviates from the The Court issued an Order on February 27, 2015 in which all dates Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release in the scheduling order have been stayed.
At December 31, 2015, provisions In March 2012, Shire was notified that Watson Laboratories for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman $9.9million December 31, 2014: $16.9million.
Actseeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the aredisclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not USDistrict Court for the Southern District of Florida against always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For Watson Laboratories Inc. -Florida and Watson Pharmaceuticals, those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at Inc. Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. were least reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the subsequently added as defendants.
A trial took place in April, 2013 Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in and on May 9, 2013 the trial court issued a decision finding that excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where the proposed generic product infringes the patent-in-suit and that such excess is both material and estimable.
the patent is not invalid.
Watson appealed the trial courts ruling tothe CAFC and a hearing took place on December 2, 2013.
VYVANSE Theruling of the CAFC was issued on March 28, 2014 overruling In May and June 2011, Shire was notified that six separate the trial court on the interpretation of two claim terms and remanding Abbreviated New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted the case for further proceedings.
Shire petitioned the Supreme under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market Court for a writ of certiori, which was granted on January 26, generic versions of all approved strengths of VYVANSE.
The Supreme Court also vacated the CAFC decision and notices were from Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Amneal Pharmaceuticals remanded the case to the CAFC for further consideration in light of LLC Amneal : Watson Laboratories, Inc. Watson : Roxane the Supreme Courts decision in Teva v Sandoz.
On June 3, 2015, Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the CAFC reaffirmed its previous decision to reverse the district Mylan : and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, courts claims construction.
The case has been remanded to the Actavis.
Since filing suit against these ANDA filers, along with district court and a trial took place beginning on January 25, 2016.
API suppliers Johnson Matthey Inc. and Johnson Matthey Closing arguments are scheduled to take place on March 11, 2016.
Pharmaceuticals Materials collectively Johnson Matthey, Shire The court has not issued its ruling on the trial.
has been engaged in a consolidated patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against the In April 2012, Shire was notified that Mylan had submitted an aforementioned parties except Watson, who withdrew their ANDA.
ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, On June 23, 2014, the US District Court for the District of New Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Middle District Jersey granted Shires summary judgment motion holding that of Florida against Mylan.
A Markman hearing took place on 18claims of the patents-in-suit were both infringed and valid.
A Markman ruling was issued on March 23, OnSeptember 24, 2015, the US Court of Appeals of the Federal 2015.
The previously scheduled trial date has been vacated and Circuit CAFC affirmed that ruling against all of the ANDA filers the case has been stayed until May 31, 2016. and the infringement ruling against Johnson Matthey.
In March 2015, Shire was notified that Amneal had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Amneal, Amneal Pharmaceuticals of New York, LLC, Amneal Life Sciences Pvt.
Ltd. and Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co. India Pvt.
Ltd. No trial date has been set.
140 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In September 2015, Shire was notified that Lupin Ltd. had 19.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive loss submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking The changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the their related tax effects, in the year to December 31, 2015 and requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the US District 2014 are included below: Court for the District of Maryland against Lupin Ltd. Lupin Unrealized Pharmaceuticals Inc. Lupin Inc. and Lupin Atlantis Holdings SA.
holding AMarkman hearing is scheduled to take place on August 22, Foreign gain loss Accumulated 2016.
No trial date has been set.
currency on availableother On October 7, 2015 the Patent Trial and Appeals Board PTAB translation for-sale comprehensive ofthe United States Patent Office instituted an inter parties review adjustment securities loss IPR of US Patent 6,773,720 which is the patent-in-suit in the $M $M $M litigations referred to above.
The IPR process is designed to As at January 1, 2015 25.7 5.8 31.5 re-assess the patentability of the claims of the patent.
A decision Current period change: from the PTAB is expected in October 2016.
Net current period other comprehensive loss Investigation related to DERMAGRAFT income 156.4 4.1 152.3 The Department of Justice, including the US Attorneys Office forthe Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division and the US As at December 31, 2015 182.1 1.7 183.8 Attorneys Office for Washington, DC, is conducting civil and criminal investigations into the sales and marketing practices of Unrealized Advanced BioHealing Inc. ABH relating to DERMAGRAFT.
holding Foreign gain loss Accumulated Following the disposal of the DERMAGRAFT business in January currency on availableother 2014, Shire has retained certain legacy liabilities including any translation for-sale comprehensive liability that may arise from this investigation.
Shire is cooperating adjustment securities income loss fully with these investigations.
Shire is not in a position at this time $M $M $M to predict the scope, duration or outcome of these investigations.
As at January 1, 2014 110.4 0.2 110.2 Civil Investigative Demand relating to VANCOCIN Current period change: On April 6, 2012, ViroPharma received a notification that the Other comprehensive UnitedStates Federal Trade Commission FTC is conducting loss income before aninvestigation into whether ViroPharma had engaged in unfair reclassification 136.1 3.7 132.4 methods of competition with respect to VANCOCIN.
On August 3, Gain transferred to the 2012, and September 8, 2014, ViroPharma and Shire respectively income statement received Civil Investigative Demands from the FTC requesting within Other income, additional information related to this matter.
Shire has fully net on disposal of cooperated with the FTCs investigation.
At this time, Shire is available-for-sale unable to predict the outcome or duration of this investigation.
securities 9.3 9.3 Net current period other Lawsuit related to supply of ELAPRASE to certain patients in Brazil comprehensive loss 136.1 5.6 141.7 On September 24, 2014 Shires Brazilian affiliate, Shire Farmaceutica Brasil Ltda, was served with a lawsuit brought by As at December 31, 2014 25.7 5.8 31.5 theState of Sao Paulo and in which the Brazilian Public Attorneys office has intervened alleging that Shire is obligated to provide 20.
Financial instruments certain medical care including ELAPRASE for an indefinite period Treasury policies and organization at no cost to patients who participated in ELAPRASE clinical trials The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated in Brazil, and seeking recoupment to the Brazilian government for byits corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are amounts paid for these patients to date, and moral damages conducted within a framework of policies and procedures associated with these claims.
Shire intends to defend itself against approved annually by the Board of Directors.
As a matter of policy, these allegations but is not able to predict the outcome or duration the Company does not undertake speculative transactions that of this case.
would increase its credit, currency or interest rate exposure.
Interest rate risk The Company is principally exposed to interest rate risk on any borrowings under the Companys various debt facilities see Liquidity and Capital Resources for details of each of the Companys facilities.
Interest on each of these facilities is set at floating rates, to the extent utilized.
Shires exposure under these facilities is to US dollar interest rates.
At December 31, 2015 the Company had fully utilized the January 2015 Facility Agreement and utilized $750million of the RCF.
Other facilities were not utilized at December 31, 2015.
Shire Annual Report 2015 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in The Company regularly evaluates the interest rate risk on its countries outside of the United States is derived from product facilities.
At December 31, 2015 the Company considered the risks sales to government-owned or government-supported healthcare associated with floating interest rates on borrowings under its providers.
The Companys recovery of these accounts facilities as appropriate.
A hypothetical one percentage point receivableis therefore dependent upon the financial stability and increase or decrease in the interest rates applicable to drawings creditworthiness of the relevant governments.
In recent years under the January 2015 Facility Agreement and the RCF at global and national economic conditions have negatively affected December 31, 2015 would increase interest expense by the growth, creditworthiness and general economic condition of approximately $15million per annum or would decrease the certain markets in which the Company operates.
As a result, in interest expense by approximately $7million per annum.
some countries outside of the US, specifically the Relevant Countries, the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk on its restricted of receivables due from government-owned or governmentcash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange supported healthcare providers.
The Company continued to contracts on which interest is set at floating rates.
This exposure receive remittances in relation to government-owned or isprimarily limited to US dollar, Pounds sterling and Euro interest government-supported healthcare providers in the Relevant rates.
As the Company maintains all of its cash, liquid investments Countries in the year to December 31, 2015, including receipts of and foreign exchange contracts on a short term basis for liquidity $116.0million and $100.0million in respect of Spanish and Italian purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
In the year to receivables, respectively.
The Companys exposure to Greece, December 31, 2015 the average interest rate received on cash both in terms of gross accounts receivable and annual revenues, andliquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
and liquid investments were primarily invested in US dollar term deposits with banks and money market and liquidity funds.
To date the Company has not incurred material losses on accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries, and continues to consider No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
The Company December 31, 2015 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Company willcontinue to evaluate all its accounts receivable for potential continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place collection risks and has made provision for amounts where tomanage the risk and may enter into derivative instruments to collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the financial condition manage interest rate risk in the future.
ofthe Relevant Countries or other Eurozone countries suffer significant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments Credit risk becomes uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to withdraws from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash accounts may be required, and losses may be incurred, in future investments, derivative contracts and trade accounts receivable periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the from product sales and from third parties from which the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including money market and liquidity funds Foreign exchange risk and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard and has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant with which it enters into bank term deposit arrangements and subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the derivative instruments.
The Company limits this exposure through US dollar, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Franc, Canadian dollar and a system of internal credit limits which vary according to ratings theEuro.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are assigned to the counterparties by the major rating agencies.
minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions Theinternal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure in the subsidiarys functional currency.
against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts are Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign major international financial institutions.
exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate and relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail predominantly to inter-company financing.
The foreign exchange pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2015 there were contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
Cash three customers in the US that accounted for 47% of the flows from derivative instruments are presented within net cash Companys product sales.
However, such customers typically have provided by operating activities in the consolidated cash flow significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration statement, unless the derivative instruments are economically of credit is considered acceptable.
The Company has taken hedging specific investing or financing activities.
positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an functional subsidiaries.
adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results ofoperations.
142 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information At December 31, 2015 the Company had 39 swap and forward 21.
Fair value measurement foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis risk.
The swap and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
As at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 the following TheCompany did not have credit risk related contingent features financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a or collateral linked to the derivatives.
The Company has master recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical netting agreements with a number of counterparties to these assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and foreign exchange contracts and on the occurrence of specified significant unobservable inputs Level 3. events, the Company has the ability to terminate contracts and Carrying value and Fair value settle them with a net payment by one party to the other.
The Company has elected to present derivative assets and derivative Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet.
At December 31, 2015 $M $M $M $M AsatDecember 31, 2015 the potential effect of rights of set-off Financial assets: associated with the foreign exchange contracts would be an 1 Available-for-sale securities 17.2 17.2 offsetto both assets and liabilities of $1.4million, resulting in 2 Contingent consideration receivable 13.8 13.8 netderivative assets and derivative liabilities of $0.5million and $10.1million, respectively.
Further details are included below: Foreign exchange contracts 1.9 1.9 Financial liabilities: Fair value Fair value Foreign exchange contracts 11.5 11.5 December 31, December 31, 3 2015 2014 Contingent consideration payable 475.9 475.9 $M $M Assets Pr epaid expenses and other Carrying value and Fair value current assets 1.9 12.6 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities Other current liabilities 11.5 7.8 At December 31, 2014 $M $M $M $M Net gains both realized and unrealized arising on foreign Financial assets: 1 exchange contracts have been classified in the consolidated Available-for-sale securities 13.1 13.1 statements of income as follows: 2 Contingent consideration receivable 15.9 15.9 Foreign exchange contracts 12.6 12.6 Amount of net gains Location of net recognized in income Financial liabilities: gains Foreign exchange contracts 7.8 7.8 recognized in 2015 2014 Year to December 31, income $M $M 3 Contingent consideration payable 629.9 629.9 Foreign exchange contracts Other income, net 9.5 8.0 1 Available-for-sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
These net foreign exchange gains are offset within Other income, 2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses net by net foreign exchange gains arising on the balance sheet andother current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
3 Contingent consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fairvalue amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Available-for-sale securities the fair values of available-for-sale securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
Contingent consideration receivable the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash flow method.
Foreign exchange contracts the fair values of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash flows.
Contingent consideration payable the fair value of the contingent consideration payable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash flow method.
Shire Annual Report 2015 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Fair value measurement continued Quantitative Information about Assets and Liabilities Measured at Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis FairValue on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 Inputs Level 3 The change in the fair value of the Companys contingent Quantitative information about the Companys recurring Level 3 consideration receivable and payables, which are measured at fair fairvalue measurements is included below: value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Financial assets: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Level 3, are as follows: Fair Significant Contingent consideration receivable At December 31, value Valuation unobservable 2015 2014 2015 $M Technique Inputs Range $M $M Income Balance at January 1, 15.9 36.1 approach Probability Initial recognition of contingent probability weightings  33.6 Contingent weighted applied to consideration discounted different sales Loss recognized in the income statement receivable CCR 13.8 cash flow scenarios 10 to 70% within discontinued operations due to change in fair value during the period 33.6 Future forecast consideration Gain loss recognized in the income receivable based statement within Gain on sale of on contractual productrights due to change in fair terms with $0 to valueduring theperiod 13.6 2.9 purchaser $25million Reclassification of amounts to Other receivables within Other current assets 17.8 20.2 Assumed market participant Amounts recorded to other discount rate 8.4% comprehensive income within foreign currency  2.1 2.9 Financial Balance at December 31, 13.8 15.9 liabilities: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Contingent consideration payable Fair Significant At December 31, value Valuation unobservable 2015 2014 2015 $M Technique Inputs Range $M $M Income Balance at January 1, 629.9 405.9 approach Initial recognition of contingent probability Cumulative considerationpayable 92.8 226.7 Contingent weighted probability of Change in fair value during the period consideration discounted milestones withthe corresponding adjustment payable 475.9 cash flow beingachieved 4 to 90% recognized within Integration Assumed market andacquisition costs inthe participant incomestatement 149.9 14.7 discount rate 1.2 to 12.4% Reclassification of amounts to Periods in which  100.8 15.1 milestones Change in fair value during the period are expected withcorresponding adjustment to tobe achieved 2016 to 2030 theassociated intangible asset 1.4 2.7 Forecast quarterly Amounts recorded to other royaltiespayable comprehensiveincome within foreign on net sales currency translation adjustments 2.5 5.0 of relevant $2.1 to Balance at December 31, 475.9 629.9 products $6.6million Of the $475.9million of contingent consideration payable as at The Company re-measures the CCR relating to contingent December 31, 2015, $19.5million is recorded within other current consideration due to the Company following divestment of certain liabilities and $456.4million is recorded within other non-current of the Companys products at fair value at each balance sheet liabilities in the Companys balance sheet.
date, with the fair value measurement based on forecast cash flows, over a number of scenarios which vary depending on theexpected performance outcome of the products following divestment.
The forecast cash flows under each of these differing outcomes have been included in probability weighted estimates used by the Company in determining the fair value of the CCR.
144 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones Fair Value at the Measurement Date the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various Fair Significant business combinations and future royalties payable as a result At December 31, value Valuation unobservable ofcertain business combinations and licenses.
The amount 2015 $M Technique Inputs Range ultimately payable by Shire in relation to business combinations is dependent upon the achievement of specified future milestones, Income Probability of IPR&D intangible approach regulatory such as the achievement of certain future development, regulatory assets SHP625 discounted approval being and sales milestones.
The Company assesses the probability, andSHP608 $nil cash flow obtained 5 to 33% andestimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each Expected commercial balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration which launch date 2020 to 2021 may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to future royalties isdependent upon future net sales of the relevant products over Assumed market the life of the royalty term.
The Company assesses the present participant value of forecast future net sales of the relevant products and discount rate 9.1 to 10.7% re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value The carrying amounts of other financial assets and liabilities eachbalance sheet date.
materially approximate to their fair value either because of the The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration short-term maturity of these amounts or because there have been receivable and payable could significantly increase or decrease no significant changes since the asset or liability was last redue to changes in certain assumptions which underpin the fair measured to fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Each set of assumptions and milestones 22.
Shareholders equity isspecific to the individual contingent consideration receivable Authorized common stock orpayable.
The assumptions include, among other things, the The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2015, was probability and expected timing of certain milestones being achieved, 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares and 2 subscriber ordinary shares.
the forecast future net sales of the relevant products and related future royalties payable, the probability weightings applied to Dividends different sales scenarios of the Companys divested products and Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to fund payments of forecast future royalties receivable under scenarios developed by dividends from any source other than capital redemption reserve the Company, and the discount rates used to determine the present or nominal capital account subject to the Directors authorizing value of contingent future cash flows.
The Company regularly thedistribution making a solvency statement in the prescribed reviews these assumptions, and makes adjustments to the fair statutory form.
At December 31, 2015, Shire plcs distributable value measurements as required by facts and circumstances.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis using Treasury stock Significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the In the year to December 31, 2015 the Company reviewed its EBTand under the share buy-back program as a reduction of SHP625 and SHP608 IPR&D intangible assets for impairment shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
andrecognized an impairment charge of $643.7million, recorded AtDecember 31, 2015, the EBT held 0.6million ordinary shares within R&D in the consolidated income statement, to write-down 2014: 0.7million: 2013: 2.4million and 0.2million ADSs 2014: these IPR&D assets to their fair value.
The fair value of these 0.3million: 2013: 0.4million and shares held under the share IPR&D assets was determined using the income approach, which buy-back program were 8.5million ordinary shares 2014: used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
During the year to December 31, inputs included, among other things, the probabilities of these 2015 and 2014 the Company did not purchase any shares either IPR&D assets receiving regulatory approval, the timeframe for such through the EBT or under any share buy-back program.
approval, risk-adjusted forecast future cashflows to be generated Income Access Share Arrangements by these IPR&D assets and the determination of an appropriate Shire has put into place income access arrangements which discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of enable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose forecast future cash flows.
Thefairvalue of these IPR&D assets, whether they receive their dividends from Shire plc, a company determined at the time oftheimpairment review, was $nil.
taxresident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings Old Shire, a Shire Group companytax resident in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: Shire Annual Report 2015 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Shareholders equity continued Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements i If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its atany time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid ordinary shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such Depositary who have made an income access share election.
In amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including to its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount any Irish withholding tax consequences.
equal to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by In the year to December 31, 2015 Old Shire paid dividends totaling theTrustee.
$127.7million 2014: $112.8million: 2013: $91.1million on the ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total dividend ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire plc.
amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc 23.
Earnings per share on its ordinary shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a The following table reconciles net income and the weighted dividend on the relevant ordinary shares equivalent to the average ordinary shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid per share for the periods presented: onthe ordinary shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as 2015 2014 maybe applicable under exemptions from withholding tax Year to December 31, $M $M contained in Irish law.
Income from continuing operations, iii An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access net of taxes 1,337.5 3,282.8 1 share election such that he she will receive his her dividends Loss gain from discontinued operations 34.1 122.7 which would otherwise be payable by Shire Plc under these Numerator for basic earnings per share 1,303.4 3,405.5 arrangements from OldShire.
This can be done by submitting Weighted average number of shares: Millions Millions an income access share arrangement election from containing 1 Basic 590.4 586.7 information on the participating shareholders as required by law.
Effect of dilutive shares: The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders 2 Share-based awards to employees 2.7 4.6 of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under Diluted 593.1 591.3 current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
1 Excludes shares purchased by the EBT and under shares buy-back program If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old and presented by Shire as treasury stock.
Shire under the income access share arrangements, he she must 2 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
withdraw his her ordinary shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the ADS Depositary and request 2015 2014 delivery of the Shire plc ordinary shares.
This will enable him her Year to December 31, $M $M toreceive dividends from Shire plc.
Earnings per ordinary share basic It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Earnings from continuing operations 226.5 559.6 Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Loss gain from discontinued operations 5.8 20.9 Trustee for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make an Earnings per ordinary share basic 220.7 580.5 income access share election in an amount equal to what would Earnings per ordinary share diluted have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends Earnings from continuing operations 225.5 555.2 from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to Loss gain from discontinued operations 5.8 20.8 theordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders Earnings per ordinary share diluted 219.7 576.0 entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders weighted average number of shares are shown below: and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no 2015 2014 No.
of shares grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc Millions Millions will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
1 Share-based awards to employees 3.4 0.3 1 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period or b the required performance conditions were not satisfied as at the balance sheet date.
146 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 24.
Segmental reporting Material customers Shire comprises a single operating and reportable segment In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for engaged in the research, development, licensing, manufacturing, greater than 10% of the Companys product revenues: marketing, distribution and sale of innovative specialist medicines 2015 2014 to meet significant unmet patient needs.
2015 % product 2014 % product This segment is supported by several key functions: a Pipeline Year to December 31, $M revenue $M revenue group, consisting of R&D and Corporate Development, which AmerisourceBergen Corp 1,048.3 17 759.2 13 prioritizes its activities towards late-stage development programs McKesson Corp. 1,044.1 17 1,021.0 18 across a variety of therapeutic areas, while focusing its pre-clinical Cardinal Health Inc. 796.9 13 979.9 17 development activities primarily in Rare Diseases: a Technical Operations group responsible for the Companys global supply Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these chain: and an In-line marketed products group which focuses on material customers were asfollows: commercialized products.
The In-line marketed products group has commercial units that focus exclusively on the commercial 2015 2014 execution of its marketed products including in the areas of HAE December 31, $M $M LSD, Neuroscience, and Gastrointestinal GI and Internal AmerisourceBergen Corp 1715 134.9 Medicine, and to support the development of our pipeline McKesson Corp. 193.1 179.4 candidates, in Ophthalmics.
This ensures that the Company Cardinal Health Inc. 181.7 164.5 provides innovative treatments, and services the needs of its customers and patients, as efficiently as possible.
The business In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were isalso supported by a simplified, centralized corporate function asfollows: group.
None of these functional groups meets all of the criteria to be an operating segment.
December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 This single operating and reportable segment is consistent with $M $M the financial information regularly reviewed by the Executive VYVANSE 1,722.2 1,449.0 Committee which is Shires chief operating decision maker for LIALDA MEZAVANT 684.4 633.8 thepurposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, andplanning and forecasting future periods.
CINRYZE 617.7 503.0 ELAPRASE 552.6 592.8 Geographic information FIRAZYR 445.0 364.2 Revenues based on the geographic location from which the REPLAGAL 441.2 500.4 saleoriginated : ADDERALL XR 362.8 383.2 2015 2014 VPRIV 342.4 366.7 Year to December 31, $M $M PENTASA 305.8 289.7 Ireland 14.1 18.5 FOSRENOL 177.6 183.0 United States 4,659.2 4,174.1 GATTEX REVESTIVE 141.7 Rest of World 1,743.4 1,829.5 XAGRID 100.8 108.5 Total revenues 6,416.7 6,022.1 INTUNIV 65.1 327.2 NATPARA 24.4 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding Other product sales 116.2 128.9 goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and Total product sales 6,099.9 5,830.4 financial instruments based on their relevant geographic location: 25.
Receipt of break fee 2015 2014 On July 18, 2014, the Boards of AbbVie and Shire announced that Year to December 31, $M $M they had agreed the terms of a recommended combination of Shire with AbbVie, subject to a number of conditions including Ireland 1.7 3.1 approval by shareholders and regulators.
On the same date Shire United States 751.3 749.8 and AbbVie entered into a co-operation agreement in connection Rest of World 82.2 91.3 with the recommended combination.
On October 16, 2014, the Total 835.2 844.2 Board of AbbVie confirmed that it had withdrawn its recommendation of its offer for Shire as a result of the anticipated impact of a US Treasury Notice on the benefits that AbbVie expected from its offer.
As AbbVies offer was conditional on the approval of its stockholders, and given their Boards decision to change its recommendation and to advise AbbVies stockholders to vote against the offer, there was no realistic prospect of satisfying this condition.
Accordingly, Shires Board agreed with AbbVie to terminate the cooperation agreement on October 20, 2014.
The Company entered into a termination agreement with AbbVie, pursuant to which AbbVie paid the break fee due under the cooperation agreement of approximately $1,635.4million.
Shire Annual Report 2015 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Receipt of break fee continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before TheCompany has obtained advice that the break fee should not income taxes and equity in earnings losses of equity method be taxable in Ireland.
The Company has therefore concluded that investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes no tax liability should arise and has not recognized a tax charge in is shown in the table below: the income statement in 2014.
The relevant tax return was 2015 2014 submitted on September 23, 2015.
Retirement benefits Income from continuing operations before The Company makes contributions to defined contribution income taxes and equity in losses retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
earnings of  1,385.8 3,336.2 The level of the Companys contribution is fixed at a set 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% percentage of each employees pay.
US R&D credit 7.7% 2.5% Company contributions to personal defined contribution pension 2 Intra-group items 19.5% 6.3% plans totaled $52.3million and $49.8million for the years to Other permanent items 2.0% 0.7% December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and were charged to Change in valuation allowance 1.0% 0.8% operations as they became payable.
Taxation Change in provisions for uncertain The components of pre-tax income from continuing operations are taxpositions 0.4% 0.2% as follows: Prior year adjustment 1.6% 0.1% Change in fair value of 2015 2014  3.8% 0.3% Year to December 31, $M $M Change in tax rates 0.9% 0.5% Ireland 11.4 1,472.0 Receipt of break fee 0.0% 12.3% United States 975.8 1,025.9 Settlement with Canadian Rest of the world 421.4 838.3 revenueauthorities 0.0% 7.0% 1,385.8 3,336.2 Other 0.1% 1.2% The provision for income taxes on continuing operations by Provision for income taxes on continuing location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, operations 3.3% 1.7% 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following: 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2015 the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the 2015 2014 Company operates, including: Canada 15% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Year to December 31, $M $M Italy 27.5% : Luxembourg 21.0% : the Netherlands 25% : Belgium 33.99% : Current income taxes: Spain 28% : Sweden 22% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 20% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the statutory federal income tax Ireland 0.8 rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or US federal tax 191.7 291.8 surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
US state and local taxes 17.3 25.3 2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of inter-company dividends Rest of the world 17.8 290.9 and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been Total current taxes 227.6 26.2 eliminated in arriving at the Companys consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in Deferred taxes: earnings losses of equity method investees.
US federal tax 151.2 39.7 Provisions for uncertain tax positions US state and local taxes 1.7 2.9 The Company files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, Rest of the world 28.6 6.9 the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see Total deferred taxes 181.5 29.9 footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few Total income taxes 46.1 56.1 exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2008.
Tax authorities The Group has determined the amount of income tax expense or in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Companys benefit allocable to continuing operations using the incremental tax returns for fiscal periods from 2008, but primarily periods after approach in accordance with ASC 740-20-45-8.
The amount of 2010: these tax audits cover primarily transfer pricing.
income tax attributed to discontinued operations is disclosed in Note 9.
The operating results associated with the DERMAGRAFT businesshave been classified as discontinued operations forallperiods presented.
148 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In respect of the receipt of the break fee from AbbVie in 2014, the Deferred taxes Company has obtained advice that the break fee should not be The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities taxable in Ireland.
The Company has therefore concluded that no and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are tax liability should arise and did not recognize a tax charge in the asfollows: income statement in 2014.
The relevant tax return was submitted December 31, December 31, on September 23, 2015.
2015 2014 While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it $M $M reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities Deferred tax assets: resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, Deferred revenue 2.4 3.2 however, an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
Inventory & warranty provisions 25.8 28.8 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of Losses carried forward unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 1 including tax credits 980.3 686.3 Provisions for sales deductions and 2015 2014 doubtfulaccounts 178.0 166.7 Year to December 31, $M $M Intangible assets 5.9 5.8 Balance at January 1 207.8 355.2 Share-based compensation 40.6 29.5 Increases based on tax positions related to Excess of tax value over book value the current year 27.0 20.3 ofassets 0.6 13.4 Decreases based on tax positions taken in Accruals and provisions 130.4 55.7 the currentyear Other 19.3 14.0 Increases for tax positions taken in prior Gross deferred tax assets 1,383.3 1,003.4 years 21.8 64.2 Less: valuation allowance 416.1 324.7 Decreases for tax positions taken in prioryears 30.6 211.0 967.2 678.7 Decreases resulting from settlements with Deferred tax liabilities: the taxingauthorities 1.2 9.4 Intangible assets 2,850.6 1,196.5 Decreases as a result of expiration of the Excess of book value over tax value statute oflimitations 4.4 0.6 ofassets and investments 153.9 231.8 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 4.1 10.9 Other 47.6 4.2 2 Balance at December 31 216.3 207.8 Net deferred tax liabilities 2,084.9 753.8 1 Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income.
Balance sheet classifications: 2 Approximately $207 million 2014: $181 million of which would affect the Deferred tax assets current 344.7 effective rate if recognized.
Deferred tax assets non-current 121.0 112.1 The Company considers it reasonably possible that certain audits Deferred tax liabilities non-current 2,205.9 1,210.6 currently being conducted could be concluded in the next 12 months, 2,084.9 753.8 and as a result the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2015 could decrease by up to approximately 1 Excluding $30.4million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2015 2014: $60million.
As at the balance sheet date, the Company believes $24.6million, related to net operating losses that result from excess stock that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders equity.
the resolution of these audits.
However, the resolution ofthese audits could have a significant impact on the financial statements At December 31, 2015, the Company had a valuation allowance of ifthe settlement differs from the amount reserved.
$416.1million 2014: $324.7million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax positions within income taxes.
During the years related primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carryforwards in Switzerland 2015: $131.5million: 2014: $62.3million : ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company recognized a charge credit to income taxes of $0.8million and $ 103.1 million US 2015: $125.9million: 2014: $77.5million : Ireland 2015: $22.2million: 2014: $75.2million : and other foreign tax ininterest and penalties and the Company had a liability of $26.5million and $25.8million for the payment of interest and jurisdictions 2015 $136.5million: 2014: $109.7million.
penalties accrued at December 31, 2015 and 2014 respectively.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized.
Avaluation allowance is established where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities management considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not berealized.
In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, projections of future taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies.
Shire Annual Report 2015 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Related parties The net increase in valuation allowances of $91.4million includes Shire considers that ArmaGen, Inc. ArmaGen is a related party i increases of $180.4million relating to operating losses and by virtue of a combination of Shires equity stake in ArmaGen and capital losses primarily acquired with NPS Pharma $98.9million the worldwide licensing and collaboration agreement between the and losses in various jurisdictions $81.5million for which two parties to develop and commercialize AGT-182.
In the year management considers that there is insufficient positive evidence toDecember 31, 2015 Shire paid $2.5million in cash to ArmaGen in respect of the factors described above to overcome negative in exchange for an additional equity stake in ArmaGen, following evidence, such as cumulative losses and expiration periods and which Shire holds approximately 21% of ArmaGens issued equity.
therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax In addition, Shire recorded R&D costs arising from the licensing assets will not be realized in full, and ii decreases of $89million and collaboration arrangement of $7.8million in the year to primarily in respect of Irish tax losses, which based on the December 31, 2015, of which $0.5million was accrued and assessment of factors described above now provides sufficient unpaidas at December 31, 2015 2014: $1.0million.
positive evidence to support the losses are more likely than not 29.
Share-based compensation plans tobe realized.
The following table shows the total share-based compensation At December 31, 2015, based upon a consideration of the factors expense see below for types of share-based awards included in described above management believes it is more likely than not the consolidated statements of income: that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible 2015 2014 differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount $M $M of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in future periods.
Cost of product sales 7.6 8.5 Research and development 28.6 22.2 During the period, the Company adopted ASU No.
2015-17 which Selling, general and administrative 37.4 35.9 requires that all deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets bepresented as non-current in the classified balance sheet Reorganization costs 26.7 30.4 ASU740-10-45-4 for the purpose of simplifying the balance Total 100.3 97.0 sheetpresentation.
In accordance with the permitted transition Less tax 28.4 23.8 guidance, this new guidance has been applied prospectively in 71.9 73.2 2015 and the prior year balance sheet classification of deferred taxes has not been adjusted.
There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2015 and 2014.
The approximate tax effect of net operating losses NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, At December 31, 2015, $115.3million 2014: $83.1million, 2013: are as follows: $97.0million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of 2015 2014 three years.
$M $M At December 31, 2015, $82.0million 2014: $71.2million, 2013: US federal tax 149.3 38.7 $90.3million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to US state tax 77.2 82.8 non-vested in-the-money awards based on the average share Republic of Ireland 61.2 75.2 price during the year is expected to be recognized over a weighted Foreign tax jurisdictions 434.9 351.8 average period of 1.9 years 2014: 1.9 years, 2013: 1.7 years.
R&D and other tax credits 257.7 137.8 On May 2, 2013, the Company initiated the reorganization of its 980.3 686.3 business to integrate the three divisions into a simplified One Shire organization see Note 5 for details.
As a result of this The approximate gross value of NOLs and capital losses at reorganization the Company modified the terms of certain of its December 31, 2015 is $5,562.3million 2014: $3,313.0million.
equity awards to employees and Directors impacted by the One Thetax effected NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carryShire reorganization.
Included in the stock compensation expense forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: for the year to December 31, 2015, is $26.7million 2014: December 31, $30.4million, 2013: $3.3million of incremental stock 2015 compensation costs related to the modification of awards granted $M to those individuals impacted by the One Shire reorganization.
Within 1 year 0.2 Share-based compensation plans Within 3 to 4 years 41.3 Prior to February 28, 2015 the Company granted stock-settled Within 4 to 5 years 12.2 share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards PSAs over ordinary shares and ADSs to Executive Directors Within 5 to 6 years 12.7 and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan PSP Parts After 6 years 521.8 A and B.
The SARs and PSAs granted under the PSP Parts A & Indefinitely 392.1 B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance The Company does not provide for deferred taxes on the excess and service criteria.
Substantially all SARs and PSAs granted to of the financial reporting over the tax basis in our investments in employees are exercisable subject only to service criteria.
foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
AtDecember 31, 2015, that excess totaled $11.3 billion 2014: $8.1billion.
The determination of the additional deferred taxes thathave not been provided is not practicable.
150 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The principal terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs under the SARs granted to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B are as follows: i the performance and service criteria.
RSUs granted under the LTIP contractual life of SARs is seven years, ii the vesting period of and SARs granted to all other employees are exercisable subject SARs and PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive only to service criteria.
Vice President allows for graded vesting over three years, and The principal terms and conditions of SARs, RSUs and PSUs iii awards granted to the level of Executive Director and Vice granted under the LTIP are as follows: i the contractual life of President, cliff vest after three years and contain performance SARs is seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and RSUs conditions based on growth in Non GAAP adjusted return on granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President invested capital Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP earnings allows for graded vesting, and iii all SARs granted to Executive beforeinterest, taxation, depreciation and amortization Non Directors and employees at Executive Vice President level and all GAAP EBITDA.
In 2014 the Company granted PSAs under the PSUs granted, cliff vest after three years, with the exceptions of PSP to employees at Executive Vice President level and to a select SARs granted to employees at Executive Vice President level, Group of senior employees, which are exercisable subject to contain performance conditions based on product sales and performance and service criteria.
These PSAs cliff vest after three NonGAAP EBITDA targets.
A Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin years and contain performance conditions as explained above.
is also used at the end of the three year performance period to Since February 28, 2015 the Company has granted awards under assess the underlying performance of the Company before determining the final vesting levels for awards with performance the Shire Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP.
Under the LTIP the Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights conditions.
In addition, a further two year holding period will applyto all awards granted to Executive Directors post vesting.
SARs, restricted stock units RSUs and performance share units PSUs over ordinary shares and ADSs to Executive The Company also operates a Global Employee Stock Purchase Directors and employees.
The PSUs granted under the LTIP and Plan and UK Irish Sharesave Plans.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2015: Expiration period Compensation type Number of awards from date of issue Vesting period 3 years graded vesting and or 3years cliff vesting subjectto performance criteria for Executive SARs SARs 7,326,798 7 years Directors only Stock UK Irish Sharesave Plans options 113,619 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 356,079 On vesting date 1 to 5 years Stock-settled SARs and stock options 7,796,496 3 years graded vesting, 3years cliff vesting subjectto performance criteria for Executive Directors and certain RSUs, PSUs and PSAs RSUs, PSUs and PSAs 1,791,930 3 years senioremployees only Restricted Performance stock units and Performance share awards 1,791,930 Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
Shire Annual Report 2015 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Share-based compensation plans continued c Shire Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Stock-settled SARs and stock options Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an a LTIP and PSP Part A exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share Stock-settled share appreciation rights are exercisable subject to onthe enrollment date the first day of the offering period or the service and, for grants to Executive Directors only, performance criteria.
exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is thelower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the No performance conditions apply.
LTIP, performance criteria are based on product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, with a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the options as at December 31, 2015 and of the related transactions PSP Part A, performance criteria are based on growth in Non during the period then ended is presented below: GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
These performance Weighted measures are an important measure of the Companys ability to average meet the strategic objective to grow value for all of its stakeholders.
exercise Intrinsic Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are price Number value not subject to performance conditions and are only subject to Year to December 31, 2015 of shares M service conditions.
Outstanding as at beginning of period 33.27 7,756,516 Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh Granted 52.12 4,444,345 anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
Exercised 50.99 3,104,782 b UK Irish Sharesave Plans Sharesave Plans Forfeited 40.69 1,299,583 Options granted under the Sharesave Plans are granted with an Outstanding as at end exercise price equal to 80% and 75% of the mid-market price on of period 52.02 7,796,496 98.5 the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, Exercisable as at end respectively.
Employees may enter into three or five year savings of period 35.61 2,408,241 54.8 contracts.
Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2015 was 10.36 2014: 6.19: 2013: 3.37.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2015 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted Average average average remaining exercise price Number exercise price Exercise contractual of awards of of awards prices term outstanding awards exercisable Number of awards outstanding Years exercisable 3,307,723 14.01-28.00 3.7 20.61 1,953,627 20.43 1,019,985 28.01-40.00 5.2 36.06 264,646 36.01 3,468,788 40.01-53.87 5.3 46.05 189,968 53.27 7,796,496 2,408,241 Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
152 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information RSU, PSUs and PSAs Exercises of employee share-based awards LTIP and PSP Part B The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the PSUs granted to Executive Directors and certain senior employees years to December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $198.8million, under the 2015 LTIP are exercisable subject to certain performance $200.8million and $298.3million, respectively.
The total cash and service criteria.
received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors and certain was approximately $16.6million, $17.4million and $17.2million, senior employees under the LTIP, the performance criteria are respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefit based on product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, with credited to additional paid-in capital for the years to December 31, aNon GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
In respect of any award 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $31.6million, $39.6million and granted to Executive Directors and certain senior employees under $11.9million respectively.
the PSP Part B, performance criteria are based on growth in NonGAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
The Company will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed ordinary shares or with shares held in the RSUs and PSAs granted to employees below Executive Director EBT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the EBT in 2016 and Executive Vice President level are not subject to performance will be dependent on the number of employee share awards conditions and are only subject to service conditions with the granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
exception of a select Group of senior employees.
At December 31, 2015 the EBT held 0.6million ordinary shares and 0.2million ADSs.
A summary of the status of the Companys performance share awards as at December 31, 2015 and of the related transactions Valuation methodologies during the period then ended is presented below: The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions Aggregate used to estimate the fair value of sharebased awards include the intrinsic Weighted grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, Number value average volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the RSUs, PSUs and PSAs of shares M remaining life Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the Outstanding as at beginning valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the ofperiod 2,166,181 underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair Granted 1,075,254 values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are Exercised 975,895 not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately Forfeited 473,610 realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original Outstanding as at end estimates of fair value made by the Company under guidance of period 1,791,930 84.2 5.4 issued by the FASB on share-based payment transactions.
Exercisable as at end of period N A N A The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
Period ended December 31, 2015 2014 The weighted average grant date fair value of RSUs and performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.6-1.8% 0.3-1.8% 2015 is 53.11 2014:35.11: 2013:19.71.
Expected dividend yield 0.2-0.4% 0.2-0.4% Expected life 1-4 years 1-4 years Volatility 23-26% 23-27% Forfeiture rate 5-7% 5-7% 1 Risk-free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
Shire Annual Report 2015 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Auditor remuneration The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the US and compliance services, provided by the Companys Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For thecost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the awards granted over ordinary shares, the yield on UK government Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award ofmaintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for is used: pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized continued through to the end of the period covered by this dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the AnnualReport.
expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the atthe grant date: Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte expected life estimated based on the contractual term of the LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance & awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and Risk Committee.
post-vesting employment termination behavior: expected volatility measured using historical daily price 2015 2014 Year to December 31, $M $M changes of the Companys share price over the respective expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the 1 Audit fees 4.7 4.0 award: and 2 Audit related fees 0.4 0.2 the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the 3 Tax fees 0.1 number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
4 All other fees 3.9 4.4 Total fees 9.1 8.6 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Audit-related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
4 In the year to December 31, 2015 All other fees includes reporting accountant fees of $3.9million, in connection with Shires proposed combination with Baxalta.
In the year to December 31, 2014 All other fees includes reporting accountant fees of $4.0million, in connection with AbbVies terminated offer for Shire, and HR system implementation support fees of $0.4million.
154 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31.
List of subsidiaries Share Class and proportion of authorised nominal Name Country value represented if not 100% Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina ARS1.00 Ordinary Farboud Pty Ltd Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia AUD Ordinary no par value Viropharma Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary no par value Shire Austria GmbH Austria 35,000.00 Equity Interest Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary 1 Shire Services BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary 1 Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda 1.00 Ordinary Viropharma Holdings Limited Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma Brasil Ltda Brazil BRL0.01 Ordinary Shire Farmacutica Brasil Ltda Brazil BRL1.00 Ordinary NPS Holdings Company Canada CAD Common nil par value NPS Pharma Canada Inc. Canada CAD Common nil par value Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada CAD Common Stock Shire IP Services Corporation Canada CAD Common no par value Shire Pharma Canada ULC Canada CAD Class A Common no par value Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands 1.00 Ordinary Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands US$1.00 Founder 2 Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co. Ltd. China 140,000.00 Equity Interest Shire Colombia S. A.
S Colombia COP1,000.00 Common 3 Solpharm d. o. o. za trgovinu i usluge Croatia HRK20,000.00 Ordinary Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic CZK1,000.00 Ordinary Shire Denmark ApS Denmark DKK1,000.00 Ordinary Shire Finland Oy Finland 1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma France SAS France 1.00 Ordinary Shire France S. A. France 15.00 Ordinary Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Ordinary NPS Pharma Germany GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Shire Central & Eastern Europe GmbH Germany Ordinary Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany 25,565.60 Common Stock Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Ordinary no par value Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece 100.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma Holdings Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma International Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary Pharma International Insurance Designated Activity Company Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary US$1 Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 1 Shire Holdings Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 4 Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 4 Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 4 Shire Ireland Finance Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Ireland Investment Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Ireland Premacure Investment Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland US$0.0002 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Finance Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 A Ordinary 20% Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 B Ordinary 20% Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 C Ordinary 20% Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 D Ordinary 20% Shire Annual Report 2015 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Share Class and proportion of authorised nominal Name Country value represented if not 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 Preferred 20% 1 Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma Italy S. r. l. Italy 1.00 Ordinary Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy 0.51 Ordinary NPS Pharma Japan GK Japan JYEN Capital NPS Pharma Japan KK Japan JPY Ordinary Shire Japan KK Japan JPY Ordinary 6 Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey CHF1,000.00 Ordinary Shire Jersey Limited Jersey 1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharma Korea Yuhan Hoesa Korea, Republic KRW10,000.00 Ordinary Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Holdings Luxembourg S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Luxembourg Finance S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Mandatory Redeemable Preference 0.01% Shire Luxembourg Finance S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 99.99% 6 Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 6 Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
3 S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 6 Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Luxembourg S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals International Finance S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 7 Shire Sweden Holdings S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico MXN1.00 Ordinary 0.23% Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico MXN1.00 Variable Capital 99.77% 6 Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary Shire International Licensing B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary Shire Licensing V. O. F. Netherlands Members not shares Tanaud International B. V. Netherlands 450.00 Ordinary Shire New Zealand Limited New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary Shire Norway AS Norway NOK1,000.00 Ordinary Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland PLN100.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Ordinary Viropharma Puerto Rico Inc Puerto Rico US$0.01 Ordinary Shire Rus Limited Liability Company Russian Federation Partnership Interest Solpharm Adriatic d. o. o. Beograd Serbia RSD1,111.99 Equity Interest Shire Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain 10.00 Ordinary DuoCort Pharma AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma Sweden AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Premacure AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Premacure Uppsala AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden SEK10.00 Common Shire Sweden AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary ViroPharma AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma Switzerland GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Ordinary Shire International Finance GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Quota Shire International GmbH Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Ordinary Shire Orphan and Rare Diseases GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Quotas Shire Switzerland GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Ordinary Taiwan Shire Limited Company Taiwan TWD5,000,000.00 Equity Interest Shire Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey TRL25.00 Ordinary Shire Ukraine LLC Ukraine UAH Equity Interest Auralis Limited United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary Lumena Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary NPS Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 156 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Share Class and proportion of authorised nominal Name Country value represented if not 100% Shire Acquisitions UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Income Access 0.01% Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Ordinary 99.99% Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Preferred Share 0.01% Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Voting Share 0.01% Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Global Finance United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 8 Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom 0.0001 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Shire US Investments United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Viropharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 0.001% Viropharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Redeemable Preference 99.999% Amsterdam Newco, Inc United States Common Stock US$0.01 Armagen Technologies, Inc United States Series A preferred stock BearTracks, Inc. United States US$0.001 Ordinary Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary Cinacalcet Royalty Sub LLC United States US$10.00 Equity Interest FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary Foresight Biotherapeutics, Inc United States US$0.01 Common Stock Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc United States US$0.01 Common 4% Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc United States US$0.01 Series A Preferred Stock 18.581% Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc United States US$0.01 Series Z Preferred Stock 77.419% JPT Peptide Technologies Inc United States US$1.00 Common Stock Knight Newco 1, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Lotus Tissue Repair Inc United States US$0.001 Common 29.641% Lotus Tissue Repair Inc United States US$0.001 Preferred 70.359% Lumena Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Ordinary no par value Meritage Pharma, Inc United States US$0.001 Common Stock NPS Pharma Holdings U. S. Inc. United States US$0.0001 Common NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock NPS Services, L. C. United States Partnership Interest Parquet Courts, Inc United States US$0.001 Common Stock Rare Disease Charitable Foundation United States Charitable Foundation SARcode Bioscience Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary SHGT Executive Services Inc. United States US$1.00 Common Stock Shire Brandywine LLC United States US$1.00 Ordinary Shire Development LLC United States US$ Common nil par value Shire Executive Services LLC United States US$ no par value Shire Holdings US AG United States US$0.01 Common stock Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States US$0.01 Ordinary Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc United States US$0.01 Common Stock Shire Incorporated United States US$ Common no par value Shire LLC United States US$ No par value Shire Annual Report 2015 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Share Class and proportion of authorised nominal Name Country value represented if not 100% Shire North American Group Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock Shire Orphan Therapies LLC United States US$0.001 Common Stock Shire Pharmaceutical Development Inc United States US$0.01 Common Stock Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Common no par value Shire Properties US United States Partnership Interest Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC United States US$0.01 Common Shire Regulatory Inc United States US$ Common no par value Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Partnership Interest Shire US Holdings LLC United States US$0.01 Ordinary Shire US Inc United States US$ Common no par value Shire US Investment Inc United States US$1.00 Common Shire US Manufacturing Inc United States US$1.00 Common Shire ViroPharma Incorporated United States US$0.01 Common VCO Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary Viropharma Biologics Inc United States US$0.01 Ordinary Viropharma Holdings LLC United States Sole member VPDE Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary VPINT Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited British Virgin Islands US$1.00 Ordinary 97.708% Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited British Virgin Islands US$1.00 Preference 2.292% With the exception of those entities indicated, all subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% indirectly beneficially owned.
All subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
these entities are 100% directly beneficially owned.
this entity is 96% indirectly beneficially owned.
this entity is 22.13% indirectly beneficially owned.
1 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in the United Kingdom.
2 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in China.
3 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Romania.
4 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Luxembourg.
5 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Switzerland.
6 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Ireland.
7 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Sweden.
8 The above mentioned company has a branch representative office in Russia.
