Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 155 Information for shareholders Severn Trent shareholder helpline Dividend payments The companys registrar is Equiniti Limited.
Equinitis main Bank mandates responsibilities include maintaining the shareholder register D ividends can be paid automatically into your bank or building and making dividend payments.
If you have any queries relating to your Severn Trent Plc The benets of doing this are that you will: shareholding you should contact Equiniti.
receive cleared funds in your bank account on the Registrar contact details: paymentdate: avoid postal delays: and Online: www.
co. uk from here, you will be able tosecurely email Equiniti with your query.
remove the risk of your cheques getting lost in the post.
Telephone: 0871 384 2967 To take advantage of this service or for further details contact Equiniti or visit www.
Overseas enquiries: 44 121 415 7044 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Text phone: 0871 384 2255 The DRIP gives shareholders the option of using their dividend By post: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, payments to buy more Severn Trent Plc shares instead of WestSussex, BN99 6DA receiving cash.
If you would like to participate in the DRIP, pleaserequest a dividend reinvestment plan mandate from Corporate website Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.
com which provides: Telephone: 0871 384 2268 company news and information: Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7173 links to our operational businesses websites: Buying and selling shares in the UK details of our governance arrangements: If you wish to buy or sell certicated Severn Trent Plc shares, you will need to use a stockbroker or high street bank which details of our strategy: trades on the London Stock Exchange.
There are also many details of the groups business models and business plan: telephone and online services available to you.
If you are selling, and you will need to present your share certicate at the time of the companys approach to operating responsibly.
Detailsof low cost dealing services may be obtained from www.
There is also a dedicated Investors section on the website which contains up to date information for Share price information shareholders including: Shareholders can nd share price information on our website and in most national newspapers.
For a real-time buying or comprehensive share price information: selling price, you should contact a stockbroker.
financial results: Shareholder security a history of dividend payment dates and amounts: and Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure access to current and historical shareholder documents investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out such as the Annual Report and Accounts.
to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inated Electronic communications price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are By registering to receive shareholder documentation from promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably Severn Trent Plc electronically shareholders can benefit from lose your money.
being able to: How to avoid share fraud: view the Annual Report and Accounts on the day it Keep in mind that rms authorised by the Financial Conduct ispublished: Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with receive an email alert when shareholder documents an offer to buy or sell shares.
areavailable: Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person cast their AGM vote electronically: and and rm contacting you and then end the call.
manage their shareholding quickly and securely online, Check the Financial Services Register from www.
to see if the person and rm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Electronic shareholder communications also enable the company to reduce its impact on the environment and Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised rm, benetfrom savings associated with reduced printing and copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the rms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
For further information and to register for electronic shareholder communications visit www.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the rm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Calls cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Lines are open Monday to Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm for dealing, and until 6:00pm for enquiries.
