Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Notes to the group financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 iii Prior year restatement 1 General information The Severn Trent group has a number of operations.
These are Prior year gures in the consolidated income statement described in the segmental analysis in note 5. and related notes have been restated to present separately amounts relating to operations classied as discontinued in the Severn Trent Plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the current year.
The address of its registered ofce is shown on the back of the cover of the annual report and accounts.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results Severn Trent Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
of Severn Trent Plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and 2 Accounting policies associated undertakings.
Results are included from the date a Basis of preparation of acquisition or incorporation and excluded from the date The financial statements for the group and the parent company of disposal.
have been prepared on the going concern basis see Directors Subsidiaries are consolidated where the group has the power report on page 89 under the historical cost convention as to control a subsidiary.
modied by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
Joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the group exercised joint control under a i Consolidated financial statements contractual arrangement.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Associates are accounted for on an equity basis where the IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and IFRIC group holding is 20% or more or the group has the power to interpretations issued and effective and ratied by the exercise significant inuence.
European Union as at 31 March 2015.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of subsidiaries are ii Parent company financial statements identied separately from the groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date The parent company financial statements have been prepared of the original business combination and the non-controlling in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and interests share of changes in equity since that date.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The company meets the denition of a qualifying entity as dened in FRS 100 Financial Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries have Reporting Standard 100, accordingly the company has elected been eliminated on consolidation and are not included within to apply FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Therefore the recognition and measurement requirements c Revenue recognition of EU adopted IFRS have been applied, with amendments Revenue includes turnover and interest income.
where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Turnover represents the fair value of consideration receivable, Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 410 as excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter-company the parent company financial statements are Companies Act sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and 2006 accounts.
As permitted by FRS 101, the parent company has taken Turnover is not recognised until the service has been provided advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under to the customer or the goods to which the sale relates have that standard in relation to share based payments, financial either been despatched to the customer or, where they are held instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative on the customers behalf, title has passed to the customer.
information in respect of certain assets, standards not yet Turnover includes an estimate of the amount of mains water effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
and waste water charges unbilled at the year end.
The accrual Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the is estimated using a dened methodology based upon a consolidated financial statements.
measure of unbilled water consumed by tariff, which is As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no calculated from historical billing information.
profit or loss account or cash ow statement is presented for In respect of long term contracts, turnover is recognised the parent company.
The profit for the year is disclosed in the based on the value of work carried out during the year with statement of comprehensive income.
reference to the total sales value and the stage of completion of Severn Trent Plc is a partner in Severn Trent Limited these contracts.
Partnership the partnership, which is registered in Scotland.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference As the partnership is included in the consolidated accounts, to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest the parent company has taken advantage of the exemption rate applicable.
conferred by Regulation 7 of The Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements of Regulations 4 to 6. d Exceptional items Exceptional items are income or expenditure, which individually The key accounting policies for the group and the parent or, if of a similar type, in aggregate should, in the opinion of company are set out below and have been applied consistently.
the directors, be disclosed by virtue of their size or nature if Differences in the accounting policies applied in the the financial statements are to give a true and fair view.
In this consolidated and the parent company financial statements are context, materiality is assessed at the segment level.
