Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements iii.
Accounting policies Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries Sky plc the Company, formerly British Sky Broadcasting Group plc are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial acquisition and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes statements include the Company and its subsidiaries together, the in equity since the date of the acquisition.
The interest of the nonGroup and its interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net a Statement of compliance fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in liabilities assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS  basis.
In transactions with non-controlling as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and parties that do not result in a change in control, the difference between Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
the fair value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the which the non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
d Goodwill b Basis of preparation Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, representing the assets and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
difference between the fair value cost of the business combination and The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements which the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent assets became effective this year, none of which had any significant impact and liabilities assumed.
on the Groups results or financial position.
In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2015, this date was 28 June the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP 2015, this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2014: 29 June 2014, 52 week accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill accounting period as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which classified assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be is not reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the normal operating or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts c Basis of consolidation of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Subsidiaries Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in direct the activities that affect the Companys returns and exposure or the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are included in Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
the consolidated financial statements of the Company from the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control ceases.
e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income i. Intangible assets and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Associates and joint ventures relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business is not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
recognised as an intangible asset from the point at which the Group has Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have the intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the from the development expenditure, that the development is technically arrangement.
These consolidated financial statements include the Groups feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint Any other development expenditure is recognised in operating expense ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant influence as incurred.
or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When the Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
88 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Other intangible assets which are acquired by the Group separately or f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities through a business combination are initially stated at cost or fair value, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are stated Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be The amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly available for use, and is charged to the income statement through transaction between market participants at the measurement date operating expense over the assets useful economic life in order to under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group calculates a separate match the expected pattern of consumption of future economic credit valuation adjustment CVA or debit valuation adjustment DVA benefits embodied in the asset.
for each derivative based upon the net position for each counterparty relationship.
The Group calculates the CVA where it has a net asset For acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships, the position using a quoted credit default swap curve for the counterparty assets are amortised on either a reducing balance basis or on a straightand calculates the DVA where it has a net liability position using an line basis or over estimated useful life based on estimated customer industry proxy credit default swap curve for the Group.
The fair value retention rate, principally being a period of between 1 and 15 years, as of derivative financial instruments is calculated by discounting future appropriate.
cash flows with reference to the benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the For all other acquired and internally generated intangible assets, the relevant credit default swap curve.
Certain derivatives held by the Group assets are amortised on a straight-line basis, principally being a period which relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, of between 1 and 25 years, as appropriate.
which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are designated as cash flow If the assets useful economic life is judged to be indefinite or the asset hedges.
Other derivatives which hedge changes in fair value of fixed rate is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an impairment financial instruments and meet the requirements of IAS 39 are test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested designated as fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow hedge for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
accounting or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
Property, plant and equipment borrowings and derivatives have been designated as net investment Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any hedges of the Groups foreign operations for movements in the spot impairment losses, see accounting policy i, other than those items that foreign exchange rate, see section r for further details.
Certain other are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying derivatives held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of PPE comprises recognition for accounting purposes as hedges, despite this being their major components having different useful economic lives, the economic function.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting accounting policy n. Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the derivative used expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land and is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option assets that are not yet available for use are not depreciated.
Principal are designated under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other useful economic lives used for this purpose are: movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
Set-top boxes 5 to 7 years At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging instruments being or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily compared to the expected cash flows of the hedged items.
This take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in future To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the periods.
The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical derivative calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to the method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments being compared Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific to any qualifying to those of the hypothetical derivative that would result in the assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the asset.
designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative to which they relate.
is deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Sky plc 89 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the 1.
Accounting policies continued operating expense line of the income statement, over the period When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is the Group utilises the programming rights, taking into account the exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge circumstances primarily as described below.
These circumstances accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve may change or evolve over time and as such, the Group regularly reviews at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised when the and updates the method used to recognise programming expense.
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement, Sports the majority or all of the cost is recognised in the income provided that the underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
statement on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the seasons or competitions, such rights are recognised principally on cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Where is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future the rights are packaged, sold and consumed over the off-season, changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments are the Group allocates an appropriate portion of the total rights value immediately recognised in the income statement.
to the off-season period, and that cost is recognised on a straight-line ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting basis over the off-season period.
The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as News the cost is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying values Movies the cost is recognised in the income statement on a straightof the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in the line basis over the period for which the broadcast rights are licensed.
fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised General entertainment the cost relating to acquired, commissioned immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value and produced rights are recognised in the income statement based movement on the derivative.
on the expected value of each planned broadcast on the Groups linear Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of channels and the time period over which non-linear programme rights the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged are utilised.
The cost attributable or apportioned to non-linear item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative counterparty.
on demand rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value hedges is period of broadcast rights.
calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with The Group regularly reviews its programming rights for impairment.
movements in the fair value of the hedged item being compared to Where programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and or where the programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, a any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of inventory to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating expense.
Programme distribution rights Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost and contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and NRV, net of the accumulated expense charged to the income characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts statement to date.
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in the gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives operating expense line of the income statement on an ultimate revenue are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the forecast basis.
Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement during the period in which they arise.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment held for sale to customers g Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme value that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and inventories for broadcast related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost through the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any and net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated subsidy is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to view charged to the income statement to date.
encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion of the installation process for new customers.
The amount recognised Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally in the income statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the programme material has been accepted by iv.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale the Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and c the Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at the programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods in inventories, the programming rights are classified as television held for resale is recognised through the operating expense line of the programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
as inventories on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual commitments see note 28.
Payments made upon receipt of commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes, are treated as prepayments.
90 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements h Financial assets and liabilities vi.
Borrowings Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence that any or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the are added to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to which contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
Financial assets they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which are derecognised from the balance sheet when the Groups contractual they arise.
rights to the cash flows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are i Impairment derecognised from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets i. Available-for-sale investments classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h and Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are deferred taxation see accounting policy o to determine whether there is classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair any indication that any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at cost.
carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture or Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as  is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures and sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are not associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price, reversible through the income statement, and are determined with defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing reference to the closing market share price at the balance sheet date.
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are included within recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to current assets.
On disposal, the difference between the carrying amount reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to those units, and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit or loss that had previously been recognised directly in reserves is on a pro rata basis.
recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will be ii.
Trade and other receivables reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the carrying value of trade and other receivables for impairment losses j Provisions identified from objective evidence, with movements in the allowance Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal account, either from increased impairment losses or reversals of or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benefits as a impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
result of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts recognised represent the Groups best estimate of the transfer of iii.
Cash and cash equivalents benefits that will be required to settle the obligation as of the balance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates money is material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts to the liability.
that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management are also included as a component of cash k ESOP reserve and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own iv.
Short-term deposits equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of transaction costs, is presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction more than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially in shareholders equity in the consolidated financial statements.
recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement less any allowance for impairment losses.
v. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Sky plc 91 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 1.
Accounting policies continued employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as l Revenue recognition an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between in equity.
The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms Skys operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue are and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
The fair value recognised as follows: is recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate Subscription revenue includes revenue from residential and of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to employees commercial subscribers to TV and communication products, including leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based over-the-top OTT subscriptions, and income from set-top box sales performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has marketand installation, service calls and warranties.
Revenue is recognised, based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is adjusted for net of any discount given, as the goods or services are provided.
the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The total Transactional revenue includes the purchase of physical content, amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted OTT passes, pay per view and buy to keep content by residential and to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, except where forfeiture commercial customers.
Transactional revenue is recognised, net of is due to the failure to meet market-based performance measures.
any discount given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense that would have been recognised Wholesale and syndication revenue includes revenue from the sale of over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately channels and programmes across other platforms and internationally.
Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to cable and other retailers and is based on the number of subscribers taking n Leases the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable and other Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
Syndication transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of revenues are earned from the production of programming and the the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Production revenue is recognised Sub-lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line on a stage of completion basis and distribution revenue is recognised basis over the term of the lease.
when the contract is signed and the content is available for exploitation.
When the Group is a lessee Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or if lower, at the present is broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to acts as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and Other revenue principally includes income from technical platform reductions to the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate services, and the provision of network services.
Other revenue is of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods or The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income service are provided.
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating leases are or receivable.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration When the Group is a lessor from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their Set-top boxes which are provided to subscribers under operating lease relative fair values.
The fair value of each individual element is determined arrangements are recognised as assets within property, plant and using vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount of revenue the equipment.
The set-top boxes remain in the economic ownership of the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
Group for the duration of the lease, and are deprecated over their useful economic lives of between five and seven years.
m Employee benefits Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and o Taxation, including deferred taxation non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Where the Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet statement in the year represents the cost of contributions payable liability method, providing for temporary differences between the by the Group to the schemes in exchange for employee services carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the rendered in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held independently corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and, except in a business combination, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect Liabilities in relation to employee obligations which are economically neither accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred similar to defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for as such tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising under IAS 19. on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
92 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Gains and losses on those instruments designated as hedges of the net sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable to be investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are included calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited statement for the period.
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a s Reportable segments legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information presented tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same in the financial statements to be that which is used internally by the chief taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business and liabilities on a net basis.
and decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief operating decision maker and the segment p Distributions to equity shareholders information presented in the financial statements is consistent with the Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year in internal reporting reviewed by the Board.
t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation standards that are not yet effective share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted from share capital interpretations to existing standards, which have been published but are and a matching credit is recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
only effective for our accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2015 or later periods.
These new pronouncements are listed below: q Earnings per share Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by Joint Operations effective 1 January 2016 the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by of Depreciation and Amortisation effective 1 January 2016 the Group and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Annual Improvements 2012-2014 cycle effective 1 July 2016 Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided 2017 by the weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 basic earnings, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares not yet endorsed for use in the EU resulting from share options where the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations in future periods.
r Foreign currency translation Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the u Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement functional currency of the entity at applicable monthly exchange rates.
Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Groups exchange at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated financial position or results.
Below is a summary of the Groups critical in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of accounting policies and details of the key areas of judgement that are the entity at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial exercised in their application.
Gains and losses from the retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year.
Revenue see note 2 Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Assets and recognised requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair value liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange of consideration before it is received.
When the Group sells a set-top box, rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items installation or service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the are translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element Any exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each individual element to other reserves.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the is determined using vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
Gains and losses cash received.
accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 9 and 17 The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Sky plc 93 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial 1.
Accounting policies continued capitalisation requires judgement.
This requires a determination Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.
judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
In particular, internally generated intangible assets must be assessed Amounts provided are based on managements interpretation of during the development phase to identify whether the Group has country-specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Tax benefits the ability and intention to complete the development successfully.
are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions will be v. Programming inventory for broadcast see note 18 sustained.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast that each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate profile over taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
requires the Group to form an expectation of: The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in the time period over which the programme is expected to be respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation utilised: the number of times a programme will be broadcast on the and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty Groups channels: regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would be the relative value associated with each broadcast: and required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have the relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear a material impact on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or factors: settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is The time period and frequency with which the programme is expected probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which to be utilised on the Groups linear channels and non-linear services.
any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, the initial expectation of when iii.
Acquisition accounting and goodwill see note 12 airings will be scheduled and the alternative programming available to Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, the Group within this period.
liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination and the fair value of the consideration payable.
Calculating Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, achieve for each individual broadcast on the Groups linear channels including expectations about future cash flows, discount rates and the over the contractual broadcast period.
The number of viewers per lives of assets following purchase.
broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this consideration is partly influenced by the Groups Judgement is required in evaluating whether any impairment loss has assessment of the potential impact of the publicly available arisen against the carrying amount of goodwill.
This may require information on its competitors scheduling intentions against planned calculation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units to which broadcasts.
Such a calculation may involve estimates of the net present value of future forecast cash flows and selecting The potential benefits associated with utilising programming.
Certain an appropriate discount rate.
Alternatively, it may involve a calculation high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to of the fair value less costs to sell of the applicable cash generating unit.
the Group, as they attract new TV customers and encourage retention of existing TV customers.
As such, these programmes are able to retain Judgement is required in identifying the cash generating units to which more value throughout their licence period than would be indicated the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill impairment when considering the expected customer viewing and consumption testing.
Identification of cash generating units involves an assessment numbers alone.
of whether assets or groups of assets generate cash flows that are largely independent of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is The relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear rights then allocated to each identified cash generating unit that is expected are assessed based on the manner in which the Group expects to to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations from which utilise the programming rights and the relative value perceived by goodwill has arisen.
customers for the Groups channels and services.
Those relative values may also differ based on the type and genre of programme.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment values are reviewed by the Group against current and expected future see notes 13 and 14 trends in customer viewing behaviour for the Groups programming The assessment of the useful economic lives and the method of and channels.
The value apportioned to non-linear rights in addition amortising these assets requires judgement.
Depreciation and to any separately acquired non-linear rights is amortised on a amortisation are charged to the income statement based on the useful straight-line basis over the period of the broadcast rights, as the economic life selected, which requires an estimation of the period and Group considers this to be the profile most closely aligned to its profile over which the Group expects to consume the future economic consumption of those rights.
benefits embodied in the assets.
The Group reviews its useful economic lives on at least an annual basis.
Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
94 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 2.
Operating Segments On 12 November 2014, the Group purchased operations in Italy, Germany and Austria and as a result has reassessed the number of reportable operating segments.
The Group now has three reportable segments that are defined by geographic area to reflect how the Groups operations are monitored and managed.
The reportable segments presented reflect the Groups management and reporting structure as viewed by the Board of Directors, which is considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Reportable segment Description UK & Ireland The activities and operations of the pay TV, home communications and adjacent businesses in the UK and Ireland Italy The activities and operations of the pay TV and adjacent businesses in Italy Germany & Austria The activities and operations of the pay TV and adjacent businesses in Germany and Austria Segmental income statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 Results for full year Italy and Germany Adjusting & Austria UK & Germany & Items & preStatutory Ireland Italy Austria Eliminations acquisition Group Total m m m m m m Continuing Operations Subscription 6,596 1,845 1,256 1,179 8,518 Transactional 120 35 18 20 153 Wholesale and syndication 515 16 20 1 9 541 Advertising 510 162 44 67 649 Other 95 28 39 9 25 128 Revenue 7,836 2,086 1,377 10 1,300 9,989 Inter-segment revenue 16 10 6 Revenue from external customers 7,820 2,086 1,377 1,294 9,989 Programming 2,865 1,258 764 9 724 4,172 Direct network costs 840 840 Sales, general and administration 2,781 767 624 377 544 4,005 Operating expense 6,486 2,025 1,388 386 1,268 9,017 EBITDA 1,740 216 74 163 129 1,738 Depreciation and amortisation 390 155 85 233 97 766 Operating profit loss 1,350 61 11 396 32 972 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 28 Investment income 8 Finance costs 283 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 492 Profit on disposal of associate 299 Profit before tax 1,516 Sky plc 95 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Segmental income statement for the year ended 30 June 2014 Results for full year Italy and Germany & UK & Germany & Adjusting Austria Statutory Ireland Italy Austria Items full year Group Total m m m m m m Continuing Operations Subscription 6,278 1,850 1,144 2,994 6,278 Transactional 86 37 19 56 86 Wholesale and syndication 433 65 26 15 91 448 Advertising 487 168 35 203 487 Other 151 20 38 58 151 Revenue 7,435 2,140 1,262 15 3,402 7,450 Inter-segment revenue 61 61 Revenue from external customers 7,374 2,140 1,262 15 3,341 7,450 Programming 2,656 1,271 735 1 2,006 2,657 Direct network costs 816 29 845 Sales, general and administration 2,760 830 584 84 1,414 2,844 Operating expense 6,232 2,101 1,319 114 3,420 6,346 EBITDA 1,606 224 18 70 242 1,536 Depreciation and amortisation 403 185 75 29 260 432 Operating profit loss 1,203 39 57 99 18 1,104 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 35 Investment income 26 Finance costs 140 Profit before tax 1,025 Results for each segment are presented on an adjusted basis.
A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted profit is shown in note 10 which also includes a description of the adjusting items.
Transactions between segments are recorded based on estimated market prices.
To provide a more relevant presentation, management has chosen to reanalyse the revenue and operating expense categories from those previously reported.
The revenue categories have been changed to reflect the increasing breadth of the business and a number of operating expense sub-categories have been combined within a single Sales, general and administration SG&A operating expense line.
As such, certain prior period revenues and costs within the 2014 statutory Group total comparatives have been reclassified, as set out below.
Prior year revenues of 85 million and 20 million previously included in Installation, hardware and service and Other respectively, are now included in Subscription revenue.
Transactional revenue includes 82 million and 4 million relating to Sky Store and sports and wholesale pay per view which were previously included in Retail subscription and Wholesale subscription respectively.
Revenues of 15 million and 2 million relating to Sky IQ and search revenues are now included in Advertising and Wholesale and syndication respectively, having previously been included in Other.
Sports syndication and Sky Vision revenues of 28 million are now included in Wholesale and syndication, having previously been included in Other.
Prior year expense of 2 million previously included in Programming is now included in SG&A.
Revenue of 7,387 million 2014: 6,972 million arises from goods and services provided to the UK and revenue of 2,602 million 2014: 478 million arises from services provided to other countries.
Non-current assets located in the UK were 10,148 million 2014: 3,873 million and non-current assets located outside the UK were 651 million 2014: 3 million.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2015 are: Costs of 10 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group recognised in SG&A Costs of 50 million relating to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia recognised in SG&A Costs of 105 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes including an impairment of 2 million in relation to fixed assets.
These costs have been recognised as follows: 10 million within Programming 95 million within SG&A Costs of 231 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets recognised in SG&A.
Included within wholesale and syndication revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 is a 15 million credit received following the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2014 are: Costs of 49 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of 4 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 29 million within direct networks 20 million within SG&A.
Costs of 40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme in the current year including an impairment of 2 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets.
These costs have been recognised as follows: 1 million within programming 39 million within SG&A Costs of 2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
This cost has been recognised within SG&A.
Costs of 23 million in relation to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets recognised in SG&A.
96 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 3.
Discontinued operations On 19 March 2015, the Group completed the sale of a controlling stake in its online betting and gaming business, Sky Betting & Gaming Sky Bet, to funds advised by CVC Capital Partners and members of the Sky Bet management team.
Sky has retained an equity stake of 20% post completion in Sky Bet.
Sky Bet represented a separate major line of business for the Group.
As a result its operations have been treated as discontinued for the year ended 30 June 2015 and the year ended 30 June 2014.
A single amount is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax result of discontinued operations and the post-tax profit recognised on the disposal of the discontinued operation.
A pre-tax profit of 600 million arose on the disposal of Sky Bet, being the net proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of Sky Bets net liabilities and attributable goodwill.
The results of discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 1 2015 2014 To 19 March Full year m m Revenue 158 182 Operating expense 128 125 Operating profit 30 57 Profit on disposal 600 Profit before tax 630 57 2 Attributable tax expense 10 12 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 620 45 1 Results for the year ended 30 June 2015 include the results of discontinued operations up to the date of disposal 19 March 2015.
2 Attributable tax expense comprises 9 million 2014: 12 million in respect of operating activities and 1 million 2014: nil arising as a result of the disposal.
The net liabilities of Sky Bet at the date of disposal were: 19 March 2015 m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 Deferred tax assets 1 10 Current assets Trade and other receivables 5 Cash and cash equivalents 30 35 Total assets 45 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 58 Provisions 6 64 Total liabilities 64 Net liabilities 19 Total consideration 730 Net liabilities disposed 19 Attributable goodwill 149 Profit on disposal 600 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 598 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 30 Net cash inflow arising on disposal 568 During the year, cash flows attributable to Sky Bet comprised a net cash inflow in respect of operating activities of 44 million 2014: inflow of 62 million and a net cash inflow in respect of investing activities of 560 million 2014: outflow of 3 million.
Sky plc 97 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Investment income and finance costs 2015 2014 m m Investment income Interest on cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 8 4 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 22 8 26 2015 2014 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges Facility related costs 44 2 Guaranteed Notes see note 22 214 126 Finance lease interest 7 7 265 135 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 16 2 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 3 4 Gain loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 7 31 Loss gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 6 32 18 5 283 140 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 3.1% 2014: 4.9% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to 9 million 2014: 4 million.
Tax relief in the current year on capitalised interest totals 0.4 million 2014: 0.6 million.
Finance costs include 57 million incurred in connection with 6.6 billion of firm underwritten debt facilities and other associated transaction costs relating to the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
These facilities including the previous revolving credit facility RCF have been repaid or cancelled during the period with the exception of a 1 billion RCF which remains undrawn.
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of 6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of 481 million.
A profit of 429 million was realised on disposal, being the excess of the consideration above the previously written-down value of the shares for accounting purposes 52 million.
On 5 November 2014, the Group sold a further shareholding of 0.8% in ITV plc, consisting of 31,864,665 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of 65 million.
A profit of 58 million was realised on disposal, being the excess of the consideration above the previously written-down value of the shares for accounting purposes 7 million.
The Group recognised a gain of 5 million as a result of measuring to fair value its equity interest in Sky Deutschland held prior to the acquisition.
For further details see note 31.
Profit on disposal of associate On 12 November 2014, the Group transferred a shareholding of 21% in NGC Network International LLC and a shareholding of 21% in NGC Network Latin America LLC to 21st Century Fox, Inc. 21st Century Fox for an aggregate consideration of 410 million as part of the purchase of Sky Italia see note 31 for further detail.
A profit of 299 million was realised on disposal.
Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging: 2015 2014 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3,331 2,208 Depreciation, impairment and losses profits on disposals of property, plant and equipment 297 204 Amortisation, impairment and losses profits on disposals of intangible assets 469 228 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 70 49 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange gains recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 14 million 2014: losses of 2 million.
98 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.0 1.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 2.3 1.6 Audit-related services 0.2 0.2 Taxation services 1.5 0.5 Other assurance services 0.8 0.1 Other advisory services 11.4 Transaction services 1.9 0.6 Total non-audit fees 15.8 1.4 Non-audit fees payable to the Companys auditor in the UK principally comprise transaction related services including reporting accountant services, comfort procedures in relation to debt issuance and programmes and acquisition-related tax services.
Other assurance services principally relate to The Bigger Picture assurance and the interim review.
Deloitte Germany and Deloitte Italy provided non-audit services to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia prior to their acquisition by the Group on 12 November 2014.
These principally comprised technology consulting and advisory services.
As described in the Report of the Audit Committee, a comprehensive review and reorganisation of these services was performed following the acquisition date in order to ensure the continued independence of Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Group.
The total fees for non-audit services provided to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the full year ended 30 June 2015 were 15.7 million and the table above includes those services provided to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia by Deloitte since 12 November 2014.
Total audit fees payable to the Groups component auditors of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the full year ended 30 June 2015 were 1.1 million.
The Groups component auditors of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia also provided non-audit services to the Group during the year, none of which compromised their independence in respect of their reporting to the Groups auditor and their respective local reporting requirements.
Employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 1,040 844 Social security costs 159 101 1 Costs of employee share option schemes 96 60 2 Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 39 39 1,334 1,044 1 91 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2014: 60 million charge and 5 million charge relates to cash-settled share-based payments 2014: nil.
2 The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2015 was 5 million 2014: 5 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 Number Number Channels and services 5,089 3,477 Customer service, sales and marketing 15,487 13,035 Transmission and technology 4,156 3,257 Management and administration 2,328 1,072 27,060 20,841 There are approximately 921 2014: 497 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b Key management compensation see note 30d 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 6 Share-based payments 8 7 14 13 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2014: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 8 a. Sky plc 99 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 m m Current tax expense Current year UK 229 218 Adjustment in respect of prior years UK 39 31 Current year Overseas 62 2 Total current tax charge 252 189 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences UK 21 5 Adjustment in respect of prior years UK 21 11 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Overseas 67 Adjustment in respect of prior years Overseas 1 Total deferred tax credit charge 68 16 Taxation 184 205 b Taxation recognised directly in equity 2015 2014 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 2 9 Deferred tax credit relating to share-based payments 15 Deferred tax charge credit relating to cash flow hedges 20 8 3 17 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2014: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 20.75% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 20.75% 2014: 22.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations: 1,516 1,025 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.75% 2014: 22.5% 315 231 Effects of: Different statutory tax rates of overseas jurisdictions 12 Disposal of Group investments 125 Net effect of other non-taxable non-deductible items 28 8 Effect of tax rate changes 3 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 19 20 Taxation 184 205 10.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2015 2014 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,706 1,581 ESOP trust ordinary shares 16 19 Basic shares 1,690 1,562 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 21 14 Diluted shares 1,711 1,576 There are no share options 2014: none which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
100 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 2015 2014 m m Profit from continuing operations 1,332 820 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 5 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,337 820 Profit from discontinued operations 620 45 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,957 865 2015 2014 m m Reconciliation from profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company to adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company Profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,337 820 Advisory and transaction fees and finance costs incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia see note 31 107 Costs relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes see note 2 105 40 Costs relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group see note 31 10 Costs relating to the integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 49 Net credit received following termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator 13 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 228 23 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments see note 5 492 Profit on disposal of associate see note 6 299 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 4 18 5 Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items 67 32 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 947 892 2015 2014 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic Continuing operations 79.1p 52.5p Discontinued operations 36.7p 2.9p Total 115.8p 55.4p Diluted Continuing operations 78.2p 52.0p Discontinued operations 36.2p 2.9p Total 114.4p 54.9p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year Basic 56.0p 57.1p Diluted 55.3p 56.6p 11.
Dividends 2015 2014 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2013 Final dividend paid: 19.00p per ordinary share 298 2014 Interim dividend paid: 12.00p per ordinary share 187 2014 Final dividend paid: 20.00p per ordinary share 340 2015 Interim dividend paid: 12.30p per ordinary share 209 549 485 The 2015 final dividend proposed is 20.5 pence per ordinary share being 349 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2015.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
Sky plc 101 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill m Carrying value At 1 July 2013 999 Other 20 At 30 June 2014 1,019 Purchase of Sky Deutschland 2,848 Purchase of Sky Italia 752 Disposal of Sky Bet 149 Foreign exchange movements 344 Other 34 At 30 June 2015 4,160 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of Sky Deutschland, Sky Italia, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2015 2014 m m 1 UK & Ireland 904 870 2 Germany & Austria 2,576 3 Italy 680 4 Betting and gaming 149 4,160 1,019 Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2015, which did not indicate impairment.
Recoverable amounts for each of the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied to all units in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period 2014: 3%.
The cash flows of the UK & Ireland CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% 2014: 8%, the cash flows of the Germany & Austria CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7% and the cash flows of the Italy CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgement in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considered capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
The key assumptions, on which the forecast five-year cash flows of each unit were based, include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast activities.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the entertainment and communications industry in each territory.
UK & Ireland Formerly known as the Broadcast unit, the UK & Ireland unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
The UK & Ireland unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 25 million 2014: 25 million.
Germany & Austria The Germany & Austria unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Sky Deutschland.
For further details, see note 31.
Italy The Italy unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Sky Italia.
The Italy unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 457 million.
Betting and gaming The betting and gaming unit was comprised of goodwill arising on the purchase of the Sports Internet Group SIG and 365 Medias betting activities, which were included within Sky Bet.
A controlling stake in Sky Bet was sold on 19 March 2015 and the identifiable goodwill attributable to the CGU was included within the Groups profit on disposal.
See note 3 for further details.
102 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 13.
Intangible assets Internally generated Acquired Software Customer intangible intangible Internally development contracts assets assets generated external and related Other not yet not yet intangible and software customer intangible available available Trademarks assets licences relationships assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2013 18 386 525 197 274 30 57 1,487 Additions from business combinations 6 2 8 Additions 87 36 64 84 41 312 Disposals 18 14 3 35 Transfers 43 11 1 43 12 At 30 June 2014 18 498 558 203 338 71 86 1,772 Additions from business combinations 457 105 3,070 28 21 3,681 Additions 5 76 75 60 111 35 362 Disposals 4 18 145 1 168 Transfers 60 22 2 60 24 Foreign exchange movements 12 294 1 2 309 At 30 June 2015 476 616 603 2,979 426 122 116 5,338 Amortisation At 1 July 2013 6 181 357 16 209 769 Amortisation 1 76 53 32 64 226 Disposals 18 14 3 35 Impairments 1 1 2 At 30 June 2014 7 239 397 48 271 962 Amortisation 1 84 88 231 60 464 Disposals 4 18 145 1 168 Impairments 4 1 5 Foreign exchange movements 1 8 9 At 30 June 2015 4 309 340 271 330 1,254 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2013 12 205 168 181 65 30 57 718 At 30 June 2014 11 259 161 155 67 71 86 810 At 30 June 2015 472 307 263 2,708 96 122 116 4,084 The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate principally to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences and connection fees.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 598 427 356 301 242 Sky plc 103 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Intangible assets continued Within intangible assets there are certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 482 million 2014: 25 million.
As part of the acquisition of Sky Italia the Group acquired the rights to use trademarks in certain territories.
The rights to use trademarks in certain territories are considered to have indefinite lives because the Group has the intention and ability to consume these rights over an indefinite period.
An impairment review of the assets is performed annually as part of the Groups impairment reviews of its CGUs note 12.
Included within customer contracts and related customer relationships are intangible assets with a net book value of 1,522 million 2014: nil and a remaining useful life of 15 years relating to the acquired customer base in Germany & Austria and intangible assets with a net book value of 1,057 million 2014: nil and a remaining useful life of 15 years relating to the acquired customer base in Italy.
The cost of these assets was 48 million 2014: 23 million and the accumulated depreciation was 17 million 2014: 9 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 8 million 2014: 2 million.
2 Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2014: 88 million.
3 As part of the disposal of Sky Bet, which has been treated as a discontinued operation note 3, property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 9 million was disposed of.
In addition, 4 million of depreciation relating to Sky Bet forms part of discontinued operations 2014: 4 million.
104 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 173 164 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 10 6 Dividends received 25 32 Share of profits 28 35 1 Acquisition of associate 86 2 Disposal of associates 149 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 10 At 30 June 133 173 1 During the year, the Group sold a controlling stake in Sky Bet and retained an equity stake of 20% in Sky Bet.
2 During the year, the Group disposed of its interest in NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC.
See note 6 for further details.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 28. a Investments in associates For the period between the date of completion of the sale of the controlling stake in Sky Bet and 30 June 2015, its revenue was 80 million and profit for the period was 13 million.
For the period between 1 July 2014 and the disposal of NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC, their revenue was 119 million and profit for the period was 36 million.
b Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 12 26 Current assets 77 66 Current liabilities 36 74 Non-current liabilities 61 1 Shareholders equity 8 17 Revenue 106 93 Expense 91 77 Taxation 3 3 Share of profit from joint ventures 12 13 The aggregate carrying amount of the investments in joint ventures and associates that are not individually material for the Group is 44 million as at 30 June 2015 2014: 41 million.
Available-for-sale investments 2015 2014 m m Listed investments 3 518 Unlisted investments 28 15 31 533 The listed investments include nil 2014: 514 million relating to the Groups investment in ITV.
The Groups listed investments are carried at fair value and the fair value is determined with reference to the equity share price at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted investments consist of minority equity stakes in a number of technology and start-up companies.
On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of 6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of 481 million.
Sky plc 105 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Deferred tax i Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Share-based Financial Accelerated Intangibles on Short-term payments instruments tax business temporary temporary temporary depreciation combinations Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 July 2013 1 5 49 16 37 Credit charge to income 4 1 18 1 14 Credit to equity 1 9 10 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Effect of change in tax rate Income 3 1 2 Equity 1 1 2 At 30 June 2014 3 1 4 28 6 30 Charge credit to income 28 61 21 3 16 2 65 Credit charge to equity 15 20 5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 895 589 90 1 217 Effect of change in tax rate Income 3 3 Foreign exchange movements 2 81 57 8 18 At 30 June 2015 20 752 553 83 59 29 106 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
The fair value of deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquisition of Sky Deutschland was 115 million on acquisition, and has a carrying value of 147 million as at 30 June 2015.
The majority of the deferred tax asset relates to tax losses.
It is concluded to be probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets can be utilised taking account of the current forecast of Sky Deutschlands results.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The UK Government announced a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
These changes have not been substantively enacted and have not therefore been included in the figures above.
The impact of the future rate reductions will be accounted for to the extent that they are enacted at future balance sheet dates, however it is estimated that this will not have a material impact on the Group.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 20% as at 30 June 2015 2014: 20% in the UK, 31.4% in Italy and 27.4% in Germany.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset jurisdiction by jurisdiction: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 175 52 Deferred tax liabilities 281 22 106 30 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2015 2014 m m Tax losses arising from trading 219 245 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments 278 283 497 528 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
At 30 June 2015, a deferred tax asset of 9 million 2014: 9 million principally arising from UK trading losses in the Group, has not been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At 30 June 2015, a deferred tax asset of 210 million 2014: 236 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include 207 million 2014: 233 million with respect to the Groups German holding companys former investment in KirchPayTV and 3 million 2014: 3 million with respect to other subsidiaries.
At 30 June 2015, a deferred tax asset of 274 million 2014: 274 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Groups former investment in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2015, the Group also has capital losses with a tax value estimated to be 4 million 2014: 9 million including impairment of a football club and other investments, which have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
106 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 18.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Television programme rights 811 488 Set-top boxes and related equipment 26 50 Other inventories 10 8 Current inventory 847 546 Non-current programme distribution rights 31 20 Total inventory 878 566 At 30 June 2015, 75% 2014: 81% of the television programme rights and 100% 2014: 100% of set-top boxes and related equipment and other inventories is expected to be recognised in the income statement within 12 months.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Gross trade receivables 337 235 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 70 95 Net trade receivables 267 140 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 19 7 Amounts receivable from other related parties 26 5 Prepayments 499 279 Accrued income 216 179 VAT 3 2 Other 66 23 Current trade and other receivables 1,096 635 Prepayments 6 4 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 70 Other receivables 10 3 Non-current trade and other receivables 86 7 Total trade and other receivables 1,182 642 Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2014: nil which is due in more than one year.
The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due but not impaired is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Up to 30 days past due date 27 27 30 to 60 days past due date 8 3 60 to 120 days past due date 4 2 120 days past due date 1 40 32 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
Provisions for doubtful debts 2015 2014 m m Balance at beginning of year 95 89 Amounts utilised 65 27 Provided during the year 40 33 Balance at end of year 70 95 Sky plc 107 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 1,361 802 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 16 11 Amounts owed to other related parties 175 124 VAT 155 169 Accruals 1,160 747 Deferred income 401 318 Other 162 115 Current trade and other payables 3,430 2,286 Trade payables 31 23 Amounts owed to other related parties 5 10 Deferred income 6 5 Other 52 18 Non-current trade and other payables 94 56 Total trade and other payables 3,524 2,342 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
Provisions At Provided Utilised At Acquisition Reclassified Provided Utilised Foreign At of Disposal of during the during during exchange 30 June 1 July during during 1 July 2013 the year the year 2014 subsidiaries subsidiaries year the year the year movement 2015 m m m m m m m m m m m Current liabilities 1 Restructuring provision 16 14 8 22 10 9 19 1 21 Customer-related 2 provisions 41 39 2 31 33 3 Other provisions 37 6 19 24 3 34 12 49 94 20 66 48 13 74 31 1 103 Non-current liabilities 4 Other provisions 14 10 10 14 20 6 6 25 6 2 51 Employee benefit 5 obligations 30 1 3 26 14 10 10 14 50 6 6 25 7 5 77 1 These provisions relate to costs incurred as part of corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes.
2 These provisions include costs of a programme to replace aged customer equipment.
3 Included in current other provisions are amounts provided for legal disputes and warranty liabilities.
4 Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to August 2016.
5 During the year, the Group acquired employee benefit obligations as part of its acquisition of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia on 12 November 2014.
These obligations are described further below.
Employee benefit obligations Acquired at Actuarial Foreign At exchange 30 June 12 November Pension losses 2014 payments gains movement 2015 m m m m m Sky Deutschland defined benefit obligations 10 1 1 10 Sky Italia employee benefit obligations 20 1 1 2 16 30 1 3 26 108 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements a Sky Deutschland Sky Deutschland operates unfunded final salary defined benefit pension plans that are not covered by plan assets.
These plans were closed to future accrual.
The total defined benefit obligation at 30 June 2015 was 10 million.
The amount of the pension entitlement depends on the salary of the respective employee at the time of retirement.
Employee benefit obligations will be funded out of current and future earnings.
The present value of the obligations was measured using the projected unit credit method applying the following principal assumptions: Actuarial projections including assumptions about cost-of-living increases, salary increases, etc.
were made to value the future benefits expected to be paid by the post-employment plan in the event of mortality both during and after employment, disability and early retirement.
Seniority and rates of employee turnover as well as salary and benefit levels at the measurement date were also taken into account in projecting future benefits: The average present value at the measurement date has been calculated on the basis of the assumed annual discount rate and the probability of services being rendered: The following specific assumptions have been used: Annual discount rate of 2.45%: Annual growth rate of 2.00%: Annual salary growth rate of 2.50%: and Annual fluctuation rate employees of 7.00% Since there are no plan assets as defined by IAS 19 revised 2011 and all actuarial gains and losses are recognised when incurred, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the pension obligations and the obligations similar to pensions is equivalent to the provision recognised on the balance sheet.
Reasonably possible changes to these assumptions would not have a material impact on the provision.
The weighted average maturity of the defined benefit obligation is 21 years as of the balance sheet date.
Expected pension payments in the year to 30 June 2016 are less than 1 million.
b Sky Italia Sky Italias employee benefit obligations relate to a provision for employee retirement, determined using actuarial techniques as discussed further below and regulated by Article 2120 of the Italian Civil Code.
The total employee benefit obligation at 30 June 2015 was 16 million.
The benefit is paid upon retirement as a lump sum, the amount of which corresponds to the total of the provisions accrued during the employees service period based on payroll costs as revalued until retirement.
Seniority and rates of employee turnover as well as salary and benefit levels at the measurement date were also taken into account in projecting future benefits: The average present value at the measurement date has been calculated on the basis of the assumed annual discount rate and the probability of services being rendered: The following specific assumptions have been used: Annual discount rate of 0.12%: Annual inflation rate of 0.10%: Annual revaluation rate of 1.58%: Annual fluctuation rate employees of 5.39%: and Annual mortality rate of 0.10%.
Since there are no plan assets as defined by IAS 19 revised 2011 and all actuarial gains and losses are recognised when incurred, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the pension obligations and the obligations similar to pensions is equivalent to the provision recognised on the balance sheet.
The weighted average maturity of the defined benefit obligation is 17 years as of the balance sheet date.
Sky plc 109 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings 2015 2014 m m Current borrowings Loan Notes 4 US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 468 ii Obligations under finance leases 22 11 494 11 Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 434 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 399 400 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 474 442 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 372 353 i US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 477 i 600 million of Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 425 i 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 445 i 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,058 i US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 504 466 i 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 602 i US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 787 i 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 705 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 i 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 297 i 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 281 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 218 201 Loan Notes 2 1 ii Obligations under finance leases 76 65 7,418 2,658 i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2015, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% 1,226 550 676 Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 689 689 2.118% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 411 411 5.006% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 399 399 3.122% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 7,399 6,218 1,181 110 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements At 30 June 2015, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by Sky Group Finance plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% 1,579 1,353 226 At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by Sky Group Finance plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% 1,028 721 307 Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging.
The Group has a Global Medium-Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance of up to 5 billion in the major global bond markets.
All sterling and euro Guaranteed and Floating Rate Notes issued during the year were issued under a 10 billion acquisition related programme.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the Groups historical EMTN Programme.
ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 22 11 Between one and five years 53 39 After five years 128 136 203 186 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 105 110 Present value of finance lease liabilities 98 76 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2014: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2014: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. c finance arrangements in connection with datacentre equipment.
During the year repayments of 3 million 2014: 3 million were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 3.6% and expires in June 2016. d finance arrangements in connection with set-top boxes.
During the year repayments of 5 million 2014: nil were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 7% and expires in March 2017.
Sky plc 111 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings continued iii Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 1 billion RCF with a maturity date of 30 November 2020, syndicated across 15 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of Baa2 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
At 30 June 2015, the RCF was undrawn 2014: undrawn.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six-monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.00:1 and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a Sky UK Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, Sky Group Finance plc and Sky Telecommunications Services Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 1 billion RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed and Floating Rate Notes issued by the Company: and b the Company, Sky UK Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited and Sky Telecommunications Services Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by Sky Group Finance plc.
The Company has provided a back-to-back guarantee in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. of up to half the annual payment obligations of Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG under the 2013-2017 Bundesliga agreement.
It has also provided back-to-back guarantees in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. in relation to UEFA Champions League and other programming obligations of Sky Italia Srl.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 62 1,275 77 767 Cross-currency swaps 18 466 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 137 1,435 12 503 72 661 36 503 Forward foreign exchange contracts 148 2,191 36 1,065 33 764 76 1,464 Net investment hedges Cross-currency swaps 150 1,943 3 400 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Cross-currency swaps 51 353 25 390 21 353 59 390 Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 244 7 460 2 217 4 262 Interest rate swaps 260 5 260 Total 583 7,907 83 3,078 210 3,022 175 2,619 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 130 22 15 39 Between one and two years 46 7 43 25 Between two and five years 254 40 132 75 In more than five years 153 14 20 36 Total 583 83 210 175 The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2015 was a 378 million net asset 2014: net asset of 80 million with notional principal amounts totalling 7,025 million 2014: 2,934 million.
This comprised: net assets of 125 million designated as cash flow hedges 2014: net assets of 36 million, net assets of 80 million designated as fair value hedges 2014: net assets of 77 million, net assets of 147 million designated as net investment hedges 2014: nil and net assets of 26 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2014: net assets of 33 million.
At 30 June 2015, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2014: nil.
In the prior year the Group entered into a collar arrangement to manage its exposure to movements in the value of certain available-for-sale investments over a period of up to 18 months and with a notional value of 22 million.
The collar instrument was not designated for hedge accounting purposes with movements in the fair value of the collar being taken to the income statement: this collar arrangement was closed out in the current year.
112 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk and cross-currency swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, this represents 25% 2014: 26% of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group designated certain fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges, this represents 28% 2014: 40% of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Cash flows on the swaps occur semi-annually up to and inclusive of the relevant bond maturity disclosed in note 22.
During the current year, gains of 137 million were removed from the hedging reserve and charged to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2014: losses of 140 million.
The Group designated certain cross-currency swaps as net investment hedges, this represents 33% 2014: nil of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments which include bonds and cross-currency swaps, and are separately designated as net investment hedges designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The Group designates certain forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year, losses of 1 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2014: gains of 7 million.
Gains of 26 million were removed from the hedging reserve and debited to revenue in the income statement 2014: losses of 2 million.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
For fair value hedges ineffectiveness of 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2014: 1 million.
For cash flow hedges ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2014: nil.
For net investment hedges ineffectiveness of nil was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2014: nil.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2015, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2014: no instances.
Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Total Held to Derivatives Derivatives in maturity Availabledeemed held hedging Loans and Other carrying Total fair receivables liabilities value value investments for-sale for trading relationships m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2015 Quoted bond debt 7,808 7,808 8,083 Derivative financial instruments 36 464 500 500 Trade and other payables 2,894 2,894 2,894 Provisions 129 129 129 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 104 104 104 Available-for-sale investments 31 31 31 Trade and other receivables 807 807 807 Short-term deposits 1,100 1,100 1,100 Cash and cash equivalents 50 1,328 1,378 1,378 At 30 June 2014 Quoted bond debt 2,592 2,592 2,896 Derivative financial instruments 35 70 35 35 Trade and other payables 1,788 1,788 1,788 Provisions 45 45 45 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 77 77 77 Available-for-sale investments 533 533 533 Trade and other receivables 349 349 349 Short-term deposits 295 295 295 Cash and cash equivalents 300 782 1,082 1,082 Sky plc 113 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAAm rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into one of three levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2015 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments Other investments 31 3 28 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 62 62 Cross-currency swaps 356 356 Forward foreign exchange contracts 165 165 Total 614 3 583 28 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 40 40 Forward foreign exchange contracts 43 43 Total 83 83 At 30 June 2014 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 514 514 Other investments 19 4 15 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 82 82 Cross-currency swaps 93 94 Forward foreign exchange contracts 35 34 Total 743 518 210 15 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 95 95 Forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 Total 175 175 114 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Level 1 Interest rate sensitivity Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the for identical assets or liabilities.
exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate Level 2 liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the whole year.
within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Derivative financial instrument fair values are present values For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates determined from future cash flows discounted at rates derived from at 30 June 2015, and if all other variables were held constant: market source data.
The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2015 would increase Level 3 or decrease by less than 1 million 2014: profit for the year would Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not increase or decrease by 8 million.
The year-on-year movement is based on observable market data.
Certain of the Groups available-fordriven by an increase in the level of floating debt held.
sale financial assets are held at fair value and are categorised as Level 3 Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 12 million in the fair value hierarchy.
2014: decrease or increase by 6 million, arising from movements in cash flow hedges.
Financial risk management A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large Group Treasury activity but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for the Groups at different interest rates.
operations, together with associated liquidity management and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks.
Treasury operations are The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the reviewed annually by both the Audit Committee and the Board, which receive actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual regular updates of Treasury activity.
Derivative instruments are transacted exposure to market rates changes as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that all hedging is foreign currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a to cover known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions and considering interrelationships between the various market rates or exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to periodic review mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in by the Groups internal audit team.
valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the Groups Foreign exchange risk sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of those A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap arrangements market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial is used to convert the Groups debt and associated interest rate instruments to manage these exposures.
The principal instruments obligations to pounds sterling or euros, at fixed exchange rates.
currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks, and At 30 June 2015, the split of the Groups aggregate borrowings into cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge their core currencies was US dollar 42%, euros 39% and pounds sterling transactional and translational currency exposures.
19% 2014: US dollar 71% and pounds sterling 29%.
At 30 June 2015, 30% of the Groups long-term borrowings, after the impact of derivatives, Interest rate risk are denominated in pounds sterling and 70% in euros.
The Group has financial exposures to UK, euro and US interest rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other borrowings.
The Groups The Group is exposed to currency translation on the consolidation of its hedging policy requires that between 50% and 85% of borrowings are held at foreign operations.
It uses certain borrowings and derivative instruments fixed rates.
This is achieved by issuing fixed rate bonds or floating rate notes to hedge its net investments in these subsidiaries.
and then using interest rate swaps to adjust the balance between fixed and The majority of the Groups revenues and operating expenses are floating rate debt.
The Groups bank debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, denominated in pounds sterling.
In the current year, approximately means that the mix of fixed and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore 24% of operating expenses 2,206 million was denominated in euros managed to ensure compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
At 30 June 2014: approximately 4% 272 million and approximately 8% of 2015, 76% of borrowings were held at fixed rates after hedging 2014: 80%.
operating expenses 758 million was denominated in US dollars The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollar-denominated debt and 2014: approximately 10% 629 million.
In the current year, associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling or euros see section approximately 25% of revenues 2,572 million was denominated on foreign exchange risk for further detail.
no net US dollar denominated interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
Following the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, the Group The Group designates certain interest rate swaps as hedges of interest Treasury function hedges the foreign currency exposure of its foreign rate risk and certain cross-currency swaps as fair value hedges of both subsidiaries into its local reporting currency.
In all territories the US dollar interest rate risk and currency risk.
Movements in the fair value of the expense relates mainly to the Groups programming contracts with US hedged exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated set-top box costs.
In the movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which are also UK the euro revenues primarily relate to subscribers located in Ireland.
taken to the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is recognised The UKs exposure to euro-denominated revenue is offset to a certain directly in the income statement.
In the year ended 30 June 2015, this extent by euro-denominated costs, related mainly to certain amounted to 1 million 2014: 1 million.
transponder costs and euro financing costs on its borrowings: the net position being a euro surplus 2014: surplus.
At 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014, the Groups annual finance costs would increase or decrease by less than 1 million for a one-notch downgrade or The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar denominated highly upgrade in rating assuming RCF remains undrawn.
probable cash flows by using forward foreign exchange contracts purchased up to five years ahead of the cash flow and currently no longer hedges transactional euro exposures arising in the UK.
Sky plc 115 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued the valuation of derivatives 2014: gains of 27 million.
Financial risk management continued would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 598 million 2014: It is the Groups policy that all US dollar foreign currency exposures beneficial impact of 479 million.
are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have the At 30 June 2015, the Group had purchased forward foreign exchange effect of increasing profit by 69 million 2014: increasing profit by 2 million contracts representing: of which gains of 53 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2014: Nil.
The same strengthening would have a beneficial Approximately 92% of US dollar-denominated costs falling due within impact on other equity of 102 million 2014: beneficial impact of one year 2014: 95%, and on a declining basis across five-year planning 155 million.
horizon are hedged via: A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have the effect Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, US$2,611 of decreasing profit by 115 million 2014: decreasing profit by 3 million of million 2014: US$2,358 million at an average rate of US$1.58 to which losses of 88 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of 1.00 2014: US$1.60 to 1.00. derivatives 2014: Nil.
The same weakening would have an adverse impact on Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, US$1,891 million other equity of 170 million 2014: adverse impact of 259 million.
A 25% strengthening in euro against the US dollar would have the effect of In respect of its legacy euro hedging programme and to hedge current increasing profit by 35 million 2014: Nil.
None of this amount relates to balance sheet exposures: non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have a adverse impact on other equity of 312 million 2014: Nil.
Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 976 million 2014: 1,078 million at an average rate of 1.22 to 1.00 2014: 1.18 to 1.00.
A 25% weakening in euro against the US dollar would have the effect of decreasing profit by 58 million 2014: Nil.
None of this amount relates to Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, 525 million non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening 2014: 111 million at an average rate of 1.37 to 1.00 2014:1.18 would have an beneficial impact on other equity of 520 million 2014: Nil.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used No forward foreign exchange contracts fall due beyond five years 2014: Two.
with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual accounting purposes: exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a Forward foreign exchange contracts change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or interest rate.
mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the income statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same Hedge accounting periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above outline the Ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised in the income Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Further detail on statement during the year 2014: less than 1 million.
valuations and the impact of hedge accounting during the year are provided A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and US dollar in note 23. pound sterling cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest Credit risk rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The associated crossThe Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting to invested currency swaps are not designated as hedging instruments for hedge cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the positive fair accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their value are recorded value of derivative financial assets held.
directly in the income statement.
This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on regularly.
The Foreign exchange sensitivity Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures across a wide number The following analysis details the Groups sensitivity to movements of counterparties, such that the maximum exposure to any individual in pounds sterling and euros against those currencies in which it has counterparty was 6% of the total asset value of instruments at the end of significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes foreign currency the year.
Treasury policies ensure that all derivative transactions are only denominated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and effected with strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments carried a minimum credit rating of Baa2 or equivalent from Standard & and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change Poors.
To mitigate remaining risks, counterparty credit and sovereign ratings in foreign currency rates.
are closely monitored, and no more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have single bank counterparty with the exception of overnight deposits which are the effect of reducing profit by 12 million 2014: reducing profit by invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
15 million, of which losses of 13 million relate to non-cash movements The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of credit risk for in the valuation of derivatives 2014: losses of 16 million.
The same derivatives deemed held for trading is 1 million 2014: nil.
strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 359 million 2014: adverse impact of 288 million.
Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for the majority of A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk the effect of increasing profit by 19 million 2014: increasing profit by on trade receivables is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 19.
25 million of which gains of 21 million relate to non-cash movements in 116 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Liquidity risk Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, combined with access to a 1 billion RCF, which expires in November 2020.
At 30 June 2015, this facility was undrawn 30 June 2014: undrawn.
To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2015, 70% 2014: 29% of the Groups total available funding including available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more than five years.
Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 22, other than trade and other payables, shown in note 20, and provisions, shown in note 21.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2015 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 626 137 1,615 1,920 Bonds EUR 57 55 595 2,948 Bonds GBP 66 66 552 1,309 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 26 26 29 128 Trade and other payables 2,676 123 15 19 Provisions 81 15 3 16 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 31 24 40 9 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 2,292 1,046 3,359 3,851 Inflow 2,433 1,130 3,665 4,216 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2014 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 112 541 1,002 947 Bonds GBP 41 41 500 444 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 12 27 139 Trade and other payables 1,686 99 3 Provisions 35 8 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 30 24 41 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,356 1,129 1,867 960 Inflow 1,327 1,121 1,865 955 Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa2 Moodys both with stable outlook.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 4.00:1 and an EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio at above 3.50:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2015, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 2.5:1 2014: 0.7:1, and the EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio was 10.6:1 2014: 13.3:1.
Sky plc 117 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital 2015 2014 m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p 1,719,017,230 2014: 1,562,885,017 860 781 2015 2014 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares Allotted and fully paid during the year Beginning of year 1,562,885,017 1,593,905,182 Issue of own equity shares 156,132,213 Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled 31,020,165 End of year 1,719,017,230 1,562,885,017 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
On 25 July 2014 the Company announced the placing of 156,132,213 new ordinary shares representing approximately 9.99% of existing issued share capital, for total gross proceeds of 1,358 million.
12 million of transaction costs were accounted for as a deduction from equity.
Share option and contingent share award schemes The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes the Schemes for certain employees.
The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the previous 10 years under the Schemes and any other employee share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number as represents 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining this limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was released, lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall within these headroom limits.
The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares i Executive Share Option Scheme options 147,020 ii Sharesave Scheme options 8,367,072 7,976,924 iii Management LTIP awards 27,108,781 16,056,961 iv LTIP awards 8,895,963 5,575,000 v Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 2,021,348 2,065,719 vi Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,768,738 2,235,172 48,161,902 34,056,796 i Executive Share Option Scheme options All Executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2014 have vested.
No options have been granted under the scheme since 2004.
Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of options being equal to the Companys share price on the date of grant.
For those options with performance conditions, growth in EPS had to exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum in order for awards to vest.
Options vested on an accelerated basis over a period of up to four years from the date of grant.
The contractual life of all Executive Share Option Scheme options was 10 years.
ii Sharesave Scheme options All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees in the UK and Ireland.
Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
118 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements iii Management LTIP awards All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of market-purchased shares.
iv LTIP awards All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option.
The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
For awards made in 2008 and 2009 i. e. awards that vested in 2011, 30% of the award vested dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vested dependent on performance against operational targets.
The TSR performance targets were not applicable to awards made between July 2010 and March 2012 but have been re-introduced for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
v Management Co-Investment LTIP awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
vi Co-Investment LTIP awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Companys shares.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was 8.90 2014: 8.48, for those exercised under the Sharesave Scheme it was 9.37 2014: 8.82, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 8.84 2014: 8.40.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 26 June 2015 was 10.66 27 June 2014: 8.93.
Sky plc 119 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2015: Senior management Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 39,794,830 5.9 39,794,830 5.9 4.00 5.00 7,827 0.1 7,827 0.1 5.00 6.00 1,586,366 1.7 1,586,366 1.7 6.00 7.00 3,643,835 2.1 3,643,835 2.1 7.00 8.00 3,129,044 3.4 3,129,044 3.4 8,367,072 2.5 39,794,830 5.9 48,161,902 5.3 The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2014: Senior management Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 25,932,852 6.0 25,932,852 6.0 3.00 4.00 28,381 0.1 28,381 0.1 4.00 5.00 339,644 1.1 339,644 1.1 5.00 6.00 147,020 0.1 3,239,353 2.0 3,386,373 1.9 6.00 7.00 4,369,546 3.1 4,369,546 3.1 147,020 0.1 7,976,924 2.5 25,932,852 6.0 34,056,796 5.2 The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2015 was between nil and 7.08 2014: nil and 6.82.
For those outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme it was between 4.33 and 7.08 2014: 3.72 and 6.82 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2014: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014: 2015 2014 Average Average remaining Weighted remaining Weighted contractual average contractual average Options life of exercise Options life of exercise price exercisable exercisable price exercisable exercisable at 30 June options at 30 June options Executive Scheme 147,020 0.1 5.03 Sharesave Scheme 41,293 0.1 4.94 78,668 0.1 4.95 Senior Management Schemes 273,118 2.7 0.00 872,229 3.5 0.00 314,411 2.3 0.65 1,097,917 2.8 1.03 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 6.03 2014: 5.53.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for awards which have market-based performance conditions, where a Monte-Carlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
120 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Companys share price and those of all other companies to which the Companys performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Scheme The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Scheme, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.46 2014: 1.89.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2015 2014 Share price 8.82 8.70 Exercise price 7.08 6.82 Expected volatility 20% 22% Expected life 4.0 years 4.0 years Expected dividends 3.5% 3.3% Risk-free interest rate 1.5% 1.2% ii Senior management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 6.93 2014: 6.62.
The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2015 2014 Share price 8.85 8.28 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 19% 19% Expected life 3.0 years 2.1 years Expected dividends 3.5% 3.3% Risk-free interest rate 1.4% 0.4% 26.
Shareholders equity 2015 2014 m m Share capital 860 781 Share premium 2,704 1,437 ESOP reserve 125 145 Hedging reserve 62 20 Available-for-sale reserve 1 455 Other reserves 120 455 Retained earnings 455 1,891 3,165 1,072 Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation During the prior year, at the Companys AGM on 22 November 2013, the Company was granted authority to return 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox, Inc. and others dated 25 July 2013 whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, 21st Century Fox, Inc. would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to 21st Century Fox, Inc. would be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases the 2013 Share Buy-back Agreement.
At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, the Company was granted the authority to return 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox, Inc. and others dated 28 July 2012 on substantially the same terms as the 2013 Share Buy-back Agreement.
Sky plc 121 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Shareholders equity continued The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Total Average number of price paid shares per share 1 purchased July August September 1,325,800 8.86 October November December January February March April May June Total for the year ended 30 June 2015 1,325,800 8.86 1 All share purchases were open market transactions and are included in the month of settlement.
Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Companyonly profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2013 20,527,423 7.15 147 Share options exercised during the year 22,752,935 7.27 166 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 19,534,511 8.40 164 At 30 June 2014 17,308,999 8.40 145 Share options exercised during the year 3,829,019 8.39 32 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 1,325,800 8.86 12 At 30 June 2015 14,805,780 8.44 125 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2015, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was a deficit of 1 million 2014: reserve of 455 million.
Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 190 million as at 30 June 2015 2014: 190 million.
The merger reserve was 125 million as at 30 June 2015 2014: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2015 2014: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 209 million as at 30 June 2015 2014: 29 million.
122 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Merger reserve The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
Following the Groups disposal of a controlling stake in Sky Bet, the merger reserve in relation to the purchase of SIG has been transferred to retained earnings.
At 30 June 2015, the Groups merger reserve was 125 million 2014: 222 million.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Profit before tax 1,516 1,025 Depreciation, impairment and losses profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 297 204 Amortisation, impairment and losses profits on disposal of intangible assets 469 228 Share-based payment expense 91 60 Net finance costs 275 114 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 492 Profit on disposal of associate 299 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 28 35 1,829 1,596 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 1 28 Decrease in inventories 568 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 367 172 Increase decrease in provisions 65 48 Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 16 4 Cash generated from operations 2,080 1,696 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Between Total at Total at Less than 1 1 and 5 After 5 30 June 30 June year years years 2015 2014 m m m m m Television programme rights 2,936 8,233 366 11,535 4,401 Set-top boxes and related equipment 305 305 180 1 Third-party payments 164 204 368 155 2 Transponder capacity 146 683 334 1,163 519 Property, plant and equipment 110 12 122 36 3 Intangible assets 49 93 9 151 104 3 Smartcards 55 187 30 272 178 Other 509 546 144 1,199 521 4,274 9,958 883 15,115 6,094 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
1 The third-party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels.
2 Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
3 Commitments in relation to the provision of smartcards.
Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets.
The amounts included above are the expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels.
Sky plc 123 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 8 million 2014: 17 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22.
For an overview of the ongoing investigations and reviews of regulatory and competition matters involving the Group refer to the Regulatory matters section in the Strategic report.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 65 47 Between one and five years 155 117 After five years 190 33 410 197 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 2 1 2 1 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders a Entities with joint control or significant influence During the year the Group conducted business transactions with companies that form part of the 21st Century Fox, Inc. group, a major shareholder in the Company.
Transactions with related parties and amounts outstanding in relation to those transactions and with related parties at 30 June are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Supply of goods or services by the Group 45 82 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 275 127 Amounts owed to the Group 26 5 Amounts owed by the Group 180 134 At 30 June 2015 the Group had expenditure commitments of 590 million in relation to transactions with related parties 2014: 99 million which principally related to minimum television programming rights commitments.
Goods and services supplied During the year, the Group supplied programming, airtime, transmission and marketing services to 21st Century Fox, Inc. companies.
124 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships During the year, the Group purchased programming and technical and marketing services from 21st Century Fox, Inc. companies.
On 25 July 2014 the Company announced the placing of 156,132,213 new ordinary shares representing approximately 9.99% of existing issued share capital see note 25.
21st Century Fox, Inc. subscribed for 61,106,496 of these shares so as to maintain its existing percentage shareholding in the Company following the placing.
On 12 November 2014, the Group acquired 100% of Sky Italia Srl and 57.4% of Sky Deutschland AG from 21st Century Fox, Inc. For further details, see note 31.
In addition, the Group repaid the loan that Sky Deutschland AG had outstanding with 21st Century Fox, Inc. of 105 million.
In connection with this, Sky disposed of its 21% stake in the National Geographic channel to 21st Century Fox, Inc. on the same date.
For further details, see note 6.
On 12 June 2015 Sky increased its shareholding in Tour Racing Limited Team Sky as a consequence of the transfer to Sky of a 25% shareholding from 21st Century Fox, Inc..
The shares were purchased for 25, being their par value.
There is an agreement between 21st Century Fox, Inc. and the Group, pursuant to which it was agreed that, for so long as 21st Century Fox, Inc. directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, 21st Century Fox, Inc. will not engage in the business of satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
Share buy-back programme During the prior year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586 ordinary shares held by 21st Century Fox, Inc. as part of its share buy-back programme.
b Joint ventures and associates Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
2015 2014 m m Supply of services by the Group 26 19 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 55 66 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 89 8 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates by the Group 16 11 Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases represent fees payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates includes 70 million 2014: 1 million relating to loan funding.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 8.20% 2014: one month LIBOR plus 1%.
The maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during the year was 70 million 2014: 1 million.
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with AETN UK in respect of these forward contracts.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward exchange contracts with AETN UK that had not matured as at 30 June 2015 was 12 million 2014: 4 million.
During the year, US$2 million 2014: US$4 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and US$nil 2014: less than US$1 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 1 million 2014: 3 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and 3 million 2014: 5 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 3 million 2014: 5 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and nil 2014: less than 1 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
At 30 June 2015 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments of 1 million 2014: 3 million with its joint ventures and associates.
c Other transactions with related parties The Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of related-party transactions.
d Key management The Group has a related-party relationship with the Directors of the Company.
At 30 June 2015, there were 14 2014: 15 members of key management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 8b.
Sky plc 125 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Acquisition of subsidiaries a Sky Deutschland On 12 November 2014, the Group acquired 89.05% of the issued share capital of Sky Deutschland AG, obtaining control of Sky Deutschland, with 87.45% acquired through the offer process and the balance acquired subsequent to the close of the offer acceptance period on 3 November 2014.
Sky Deutschland operates a pay TV business in Germany and Austria.
Sky Deutschland was acquired to take advantage of growth opportunities, benefits of scale and synergy potential.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below.
Recognised fair values m Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Intangible assets 1,874 Property, plant and equipment 170 Deferred tax assets 609 Derivative financial assets 13 Inventories 344 Trade and other receivables 73 Cash and cash equivalents 111 Trade and other payables 627 Deferred tax liabilities 494 Derivative financial liabilities 5 Provisions 13 Borrowings 312 1,743 Non-controlling interest 191 Goodwill 2,848 4,400 Satisfied by: Cash 4,323 Fair value of previously held interest 77 Total consideration transferred 4,400 Net cash outflow arising on purchase Cash consideration 4,323 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 111 Net cash outflow arising on purchase 4,212 The fair value of the financial assets acquired includes trade receivables with a fair value of 45 million and a gross contractual value of 108 million.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not likely to be collected was 63 million.
Goodwill of 2,848 million arising from the acquisition reflects growth opportunities and buyer-specific synergies.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The value of the non-controlling interest in Sky Deutschland was estimated by calculating the non-controlling interests share of net identifiable assets at the acquisition date.
At 30 June 2015, the Group held 96.13% of the issued share capital of Sky Deutschland AG.
From the close of the offer acceptance period on 3 November 2014, and prior to obtaining control of Sky Deutschland, the Group acquired a 1.6% equity investment with a carrying value of 72 million.
The Group recognised a gain of 5 million within profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments as a result of measuring this investment to fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities which are shown separately above have been offset where appropriate on the balance sheet.
Acquisition-related costs for the purchase of both Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia see below comprised advisory and transaction fees including, inter alia, financial advisory costs, corporate legal advice, due diligence reporting, assurance services and tax advice of 50 million within operating expense, and finance costs of 57 million incurred in connection with 6.6 billion of firm underwritten debt facilities and other associated transaction costs.
For the period between the date of purchase and 30 June 2015, the acquisition contributed 866 million to the Groups revenue, and a 22 million loss to the Groups operating profit.
If the Group had completed the purchase on the first day of the financial year, it is estimated that the acquisition would have contributed 1,377 million to Group revenue and an 11 million loss to the Groups operating profit for the year.
126 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements b Sky Italia On 12 November 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sky Italia Srl, obtaining control of Sky Italia.
Sky Italia operates a pay TV business in Italy.
Sky Italia was acquired to take advantage of growth opportunities, benefits of scale and synergy potential.
Recognised fair values m Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Intangible assets 1,780 Property, plant and equipment 360 Deferred tax assets 71 Derivative financial assets 1 Inventories 600 Trade and other receivables 431 Current tax assets 13 Cash and cash equivalents 5 Trade and other payables 1,092 Deferred tax liabilities 403 Current tax liabilities 2 Provisions 50 1,714 Goodwill 752 2,466 Satisfied by Cash 2,056 Disposal of investment in associate 410 Total consideration transferred 2,466 Net cash outflow arising on purchase Cash consideration 2,056 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 5 Net cash outflow arising on purchase 2,051 The fair value of the financial assets acquired includes trade receivables with a fair value of 305 million and a gross contractual value of 394 million.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not likely to be collected was 89 million.
Goodwill of 752 million arising from the acquisition reflects growth opportunities and buyer-specific synergies.
For the period between the date of purchase and 30 June 2015, the acquisition contributed 1,297 million to the Groups revenue, and 25 million to the Groups operating profit.
If the Group had completed the purchase on the first day of the financial year, it is estimated that the acquisition would have contributed 2,086 million to Group revenue and 61 million to the Groups operating profit for the year.
Sky plc 127 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Group investments The Group and its subsidiaries are involved in the operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services, including the provision of broadband and telephone operations.
Certain subsidiary companies provide ancillary functions which support these operations.
Joint ventures and associates are involved in the transmission of specialist channels and online betting activities.
Unless otherwise indicated, all share holdings owned directly or indirectly by the Group represent 100% of issued share capital of the subsidiary.
All entities primarily operate in their country of incorporation.
Description and Description and Name proportion of shares held % Name proportion of shares held % Sky Group Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Subsidiaries: Sky Healthcare Scheme 2 Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Direct holdings of the Company Sky History Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Holdings Limited 600 ordinary shares of 1 each Incorporated in the UK Sky Home Communications Limited 9,528,124 ordinary shares of 1 each British Sky Broadcasting Group 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky In-Home Service Limited 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Limited Sky International Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Picnic Limited 2,138 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky International Operations Limited 2,540,916,167 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Finance Europe Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky IP International Limited 300 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Group Finance plc 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky IQ Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Guarantee Investments Limited Membership interest 100% Sky LLU Assets Limited 90 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Operational Finance Limited 31,440,638 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Mobile Services Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky Television Limited 13,376,982 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky New Media Venture Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky UK Limited 10,002,002 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky News Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky Publications Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Incorporated in the Channel Islands Sky Retail Stores Limited 5,001,055 ordinary shares of 0.01 each Rainbow Finance Jersey Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 Sky SNA Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each 1,000,000 preference shares Sky SNI Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each of 0.01 each Sky SNI Operations Limited 200 ordinary shares of 1 each 1 Sky Subscribers Services Limited 5 ordinary shares of 1 each Subsidiaries: Sky Telecommunications Limited 1,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Telecommunications Services 5,821,764 ordinary shares of 1 each Limited Incorporated in the UK Sky Ventures Limited 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 365 Media Group Limited 172 ordinary shares of 0.01 each The Cloud Networks Limited 30,583,988 ordinary shares of Amstrad Limited 160 ordinary shares of 0.10 each 0.00025 each 2 British Sky Broadcasting Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Tour Racing Limited 85 ordinary shares of 1 each 85% Ciel Bleu 6 Limited 51,850 ordinary shares of 0.01 each Virtuous Systems Limited 125 ordinary shares of 1 each Cymru International Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Znak Jones Productions Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Dolphin TV Limited 200,000 ordinary shares of 0.001 each International Channel Pack 1 ordinary share of 1 Incorporated in Germany Distribution Limited BSkyB GmbH 2 ordinary shares of 25,000 and 100 Kidsprog Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Premiere WIN Fernsehen GmbH 2 ordinary shares of 25,000 each Love Productions Limited 7,724 ordinary shares of 1 each 70% SCAS Satellite CA Services GmbH 1 ordinary share of 25,000 each MEMSTV Limited 10 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Deutschland AG 931,114,937 ordinary shares of 1 each Multicultural & Ethnic Media Sales 144 ordinary shares of 1 each 96.13% Limited Sky Deutschland Customer 25,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Newserge Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each Center GmbH NOW TV plc 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky Deutschland Fernsehen Partnership Interest 100% GmbH & Co. KG Parthenon 1 Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Parthenon 2 Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Deutschland Service Center 1 ordinary share of 25,000 GmbH Parthenon Entertainment Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH 1 ordinary share of 25,000 Parthenon Media Group Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each 2 Sky German Holdings GmbH 26,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Rivals Digital Media Limited 200 ordinary shares of 0.01 each Sky Hotel Entertainment GmbH 9 ordinary shares of 17,500, 107,700, S. A. T. V. Publishing Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each 50,000, 88,600, 68,000, 175,700, Sky Channel Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 17,500, 105,000 and 70,000 Sky Comedy Limited 2 ordinary shares of 1 each Sky Media Network GmbH 2 ordinary shares of 6,025 and 18,975 Sky CP Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 Sky sterreich Fernsehen GmbH 1 ordinary share of 35,000 Sky Europe Limited 1 ordinary share of 1 The Cloud Networks Germany 2 ordinary shares of 975,000 Sky Global Media plc 1 ordinary share of 1 2 GmbH and 25,000 128 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Description and Description and Name proportion of shares held % Name proportion of shares held % Incorporated in Italy Joint ventures and associates: Sky Italia Srl Quota interest 100% Sky Italian Holdings SpA 121,000 ordinary shares of 1 each Incorporated in the UK Sky Italia Network Services Srl Quota interest 100% AETN UK 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% 2 Telepi Srl Quota interest 100% Attheraces Holdings Limited 1,584 ordinary shares of 1 each 48.35% 20 recoupment shares of 0.01 each Incorporated in the USA 2 Bolt Pro Tem Limited 100 ordinary shares of 1 each 33.3% BSkyB US Holdings, Inc. 100 ordinary shares of $0.001 each 2 3 Colossus Productions Limited 2,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 each Callisto Media West, LLC Membership interest 100% 2 20% Jupiter Entertainment Holdings LLC Membership interest 60% 4 2 DTV Services Limited 6,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 20% Jupiter Entertainment, LLC Membership interest 100% 2 2 Internet Matters Limited Membership interest 25% Jupiter Entertainment North, LLC Membership interest 100% 5 3 Lovesport Productions Limited 4,999 ordinary shares of 1 each Love American Journeys, LLC Membership interest 100% 3 49.99% Love Baking, LLC Membership interest 100% 5 3 Nickelodeon UK Limited 104 ordinary B shares of 0.01 each Love Productions USA, Inc 1,000 ordinary shares of $1 each 40% 3 Love Sewing, LLC Membership interest 100% 2 Odeon and Sky Filmworks Limited 2,450 ordinary B shares of 1 each 50% 2 PhotoOps, LLC Membership interest 100% 5,6 Paramount UK Partnership Partnership interest 25% 3 USA Love Development, LLC Membership interest 100% Venture 2009 Limited 50 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% 2 Wild West Alaska, LLC Membership interest 100% ZJTV LLC Membership interest 51% Incorporated in the Channel Islands Cyan Blue Topco Limited 200,556 ordinary A2 shares of 0.01 Incorporated in other overseas countries each 20.06% Acetrax AG Switzerland 12,281,326 ordinary shares of 200 contingent value shares of 0.01 CHF 0.01 each each Sky Channel SA Belgium 1,250 ordinary shares of 49.60 each Sky International AG Switzerland 200,000 ordinary shares of CHF 1.00 Incorporated in the UAE each Sky News Arabia FZ-LLC 47,816,666 ordinary shares of $1 each Sky Ireland Limited Ireland 1 ordinary share of 1 50% Sky Manufacturing Services Limited 10,000 ordinary shares of HKD 1.00 each Hong Kong Incorporated in Australia Sky sterreich Verwaltung GmbH 1 ordinary share of 36,336 Australian News Channel Pty Limited1 ordinary share of AUD$1 33.3% Austria The Cloud Networks Denmark APS 125,000 ordinary shares of DKK 1.00 1 This entity has an accounting reference date of 1 January.
2 Denmark each 2 These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
The Cloud Networks Nordics AB 640,010 ordinary shares of SEK 1.00 3 These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 March.
2 4 This entity has an accounting reference date of 31 May.
Sweden each 5 These entities have an accounting reference date of 30 September.
6 The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 17-19 Hawley Crescent, Camden, London, NW1 8TT.
The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
The following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year period ended 30 June 2015 by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: Kidsprog Limited 02767224, Parthenon Media Group Limited 06944197, Picnic Limited 05348872, S. A. T. V. Publishing Limited 01085975, Sky IP International Limited 07245844, Sky Operational Finance Limited 02906994 and Sky Television Limited 01518707.
Sky plc 129 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Events after the reporting period As announced on 17 February 2015, Sky initiated the necessary steps for the transfer of the remaining approximately 4% minority shareholdings in Sky Deutschland.
The requisite shareholder resolution was subsequently approved by 99.4% of the votes cast at an Extraordinary General Meeting of Sky Deutschland on 22 July 2015 and we expect the formal transfer of the minority shareholdings to be effective in the second quarter of the 2015 16 financial year.
Sky plc company only financial statements Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Revenue 229 225 Operating expense 97 44 Operating profit 132 181 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 510 622 Investment income B 131 64 Finance costs B 201 81 Profit before tax C 572 786 Taxation D 24 36 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 548 750 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2015 2015 2014 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 548 750 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be recycled to the income statement Gain loss on cash flow hedges 76 79 Tax on cash flow hedges 16 18 60 61 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Loss gain on cash flow hedges 113 97 Tax on cash flow hedges 23 22 90 75 Other comprehensive loss income for the year net of tax 30 14 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 518 764 All results relate to continuing operations.
130 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries E 9,517 8,146 Other receivables G 6 2 Derivative financial assets J 358 175 Deferred tax assets F 1 9,882 8,323 Current assets Other receivables G 7,859 3,008 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Derivative financial assets J 55 7,914 3,009 Total assets 17,796 11,332 Current liabilities Other payables I 3,479 3,613 Derivative financial liabilities J 55 3,534 3,613 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H 6,723 1,557 Derivative financial liabilities J 74 156 Deferred tax liabilities F 4 6,797 1,717 Total liabilities 10,331 5,330 Share capital L 860 781 Share premium L 2,704 1,437 Reserves 3,901 3,784 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 7,465 6,002 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 17,796 11,332 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of Sky plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Sky plc 131 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 10 11 Loan to subsidiaries 11 10 Net cash used in from financing activities 1 1 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
132 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2015 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2014 797 1,437 14 174 844 147 13 3,019 6,125 Profit for the year 750 750 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 18 18 Tax on items taken directly to equity 4 4 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 750 764 Share-based payment 2 95 93 Share buy-back programme: Purchase of own shares for cancellation 16 16 250 250 Financial liability for close period purchases 59 59 Dividends 485 485 At 30 June 2014 781 1,437 14 190 844 145 1 2,880 6,002 Profit for the year 548 548 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 37 37 Tax on items taken directly to equity 7 7 Total comprehensive income for the year 30 548 518 Share-based payment 20 69 89 Reversal of financial liability for close 59 59 period purchases Issue of own equity shares 79 1,267 1,346 Dividends 549 549 At 30 June 2015 860 2,704 14 190 844 125 29 3,007 7,465 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
Accounting policies Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
i Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set out in note 1 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
ii Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The Companys main source of revenue is from licensing the Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant licensing agreements.
iii Investment in subsidiaries An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Sky plc 133 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued B.
Investment income and finance costs 2015 2014 m m Investment income Investment income from subsidiaries 130 64 Interest on other loans and receivables with related parties 1 131 64 2015 2014 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges Facility related costs 33 2 Guaranteed Notes see note H 168 80 201 82 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 462 Foreign exchange loss arising on loan with subsidiaries 462 Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 19 14 Gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 19 15 1 201 81 Finance costs include 50 million incurred in connection with 6.6 billion of firm underwritten debt facilities and other associated transaction costs relating to the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
These facilities, including the previous RCF, have been repaid or cancelled during the period with the exception of the 1 billion revolving credit facility RCF, which remains undrawn.
C. Profit before taxation Employee benefits The Company had nil employees 2014: nil during the year.
Key management compensation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 51 to 69.
D. Taxation i Taxation recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 m m Current tax expense Current year 22 37 Total current tax charge 22 37 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2 1 Total deferred tax charge credit 2 1 Taxation 24 36 ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax credit charge on hedging activities 7 4 iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2014: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 20.75% applied to profit before tax.
The differences are explained overleaf: 134 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 572 786 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.75% 2014: 22.5% 119 177 Effects of: Non-taxable income 106 140 Non-deductible expenditure 11 Tax rate change 1 Taxation 24 36 All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
E. Investments in subsidiaries m Cost At 1 July 2013 9,148 Additions 3 At 30 June 2014 9,151 Additions 1,371 At 30 June 2015 10,522 Provision At 1 July 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 1,005 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2013 8,143 At 30 June 2014 8,146 At 30 June 2015 9,517 See note 32 for a list of the Companys investments.
F. Deferred tax Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Financial instruments temporary differences m At 1 July 2013 1 Credit to income 1 Charge to equity 4 At 30 June 2014 4 Charge to income 2 Credit to equity 7 At 30 June 2015 1 At 30 June 2015, a deferred tax asset of 244 million 2014: 244 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Groups holding in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2015, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of 1 million 2014: 5 million relating to capital losses and provisions in respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
G. Other receivables 2015 2014 m m Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 7,859 3,008 Current other receivables 7,859 3,008 Non-current prepayment 6 2 Total other receivables 7,865 3,010 On 1 April 2015, the Company made a loan of 600 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
This loan bears interest at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
On 27 November 2014, the Company made a loan of 400 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
This loan bears interest at 2.750% and is repayable on demand.
Sky plc 135 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued On 24 November 2014, the Company made loans of 200 million, 450 million, 850 million and 126 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at a rate of 4.000%, LIBOR plus 1.2296%, 1.875% and 2.940% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 16 September 2014, the Company made loans of 969 million and 582 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at 2.1867% and EURIBOR plus 0.6563% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 15 September 2014, the Company made loans of 1,500 million and 1,000 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at 1.500% and 2.500% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 26 November 2012, the Company issued US$800 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 3.125% and loaned proceeds to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
Sky Operational Finance Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.500% and loaned the proceeds to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned the proceeds to Sky UK Limited.
Sky UK Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from Sky Operational Finance Limited and Sky UK Limited.
The risk of these entities defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to Sky Operational Finance Limited being a conduit to pass through intercompany financing and due to Sky UK Limiteds successful operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings 2015 2014 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 474 442 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 372 353 US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 477 600 million of Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 425 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 445 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,058 US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 504 466 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 602 US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 787 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 705 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 297 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 281 6,723 1,557 At 30 June 2015, the Company had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 200 200 4.000% 2,229 1,553 676 136 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 126 126 2.943% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 6,026 4,845 1,181 See note 24 for details of Capital Risk Management and note 22 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes in the prior year.
Other payables 2015 2014 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,394 3,536 Amounts owed to other related parties 23 Other 36 Accruals 85 18 3,479 3,613 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 2,164 million of non-interest bearing loans 2014: 2,164 million and 1,230 million of other payables 2014: 1,372 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
J. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 6,723 6,903 1,557 1,740 Derivative financial instruments 284 284 19 19 Other payables and receivables 4,380 4,380 605 605 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 23 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 48 939 51 452 Cross-currency swaps 19 466 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 88 1,065 12 503 45 290 36 503 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 14 336 14 596 31 574 26 314 Cross-currency swaps 244 2,065 103 1,017 48 725 94 1,018 Total 413 4,871 129 2,116 175 2,041 156 1,835 Sky plc 137 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued Note 23 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2015 2014 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 55 55 Between one and two years 33 33 Between two and five years 211 34 122 67 In more than five years 147 40 20 56 Total 413 129 175 156 K. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiaries Sky Group Finance plc and Sky UK Limited, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 13 million 2014: adverse impact of 16 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 39 million 2014: adverse impact of 21 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 21 million 2014: beneficial impact of 26 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 65 million 2014: beneficial impact of 36 million.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have a beneficial impact on profit by 17 million 2014: nil, relating to non-cash movements in the valuations of derivatives.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have an adverse impact on profit of 28 million 2014: nil, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2015, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2015 would decrease or increase by 18 million 2014: decrease or increase by 3 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 6 million 2014: decrease or increase by 1 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Liquidity risk See note 24 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
138 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 122 122 1,572 1,474 Bonds GBP 43 43 129 1,309 Bonds EUR 57 55 595 2,948 Other payables 3,479 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 22 21 37 9 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,058 141 1,991 3,147 Inflow 1,083 166 2,192 3,147 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 74 74 962 521 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 444 Other payables 3,613 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 15 15 36 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 63 62 930 560 Inflow 56 56 920 521 At 30 June 2015, the Company had an undrawn 1,000 million RCF with a maturity date of 30 November 2020.
See note 22 for further information.
L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve, see notes 25 and 26.
For details of dividends, see note 11.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
M. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 572 786 Dividend income 510 622 Net finance costs 70 17 Increase in other receivables 132 181 Cash generated from operations Sky plc 139 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the Premier League by Sky UK Limited covering the 2013 14 to 2018 19 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by Sky UK Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the Premier League by Sky UK Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with Sky UK Limited and Stanhope plc in relation to the construction of a new corporate headquarters at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on Sky UK Limited under that contract.
The Company has provided a back-to-back guarantee in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. of up to half of the annual payment obligations of Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG under the 2013 17 Bundesliga agreement.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee to SGH Stream Sub, Inc. in respect of the obligations of Sky Italian Holdings S. p. A. under the Sky Italia Srl Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 25 July 2014.
The Company has also provided a parent company guarantee to 21st Century Fox Adelaide Holdings BV in respect of the obligations of Sky German Holdings GmbH under the Sky Deutschland AG Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 25 July 2014.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22, and in relation to audit exemptions, see note 32.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2015 2014 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 229 225 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 130 64 Interest on other loans and receivables with related parties 1 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 7,859 3,008 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 3,394 3,536 Amounts owed to other related parties 23 The Company has related-party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, Sky UK Limited settled liabilities of 130 million and 17 million 2014: 83 million and nil on behalf of the Company during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 229 million 2014: 225 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 510 million 2014: 622 million.
The Groups related-party transactions are disclosed in note 30.
P. Events after the reporting period For details, see note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
