SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 111 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Critical accounting policies The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in Liability provisioning accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant EU, the application of which often requires judgements to be made by degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it management when formulating the Groups financial position and is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the results.
Under IFRS, the Directors are required to adopt those amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts performance and cash flows.
updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially investigations brings to light new facts.
affect the reported results or net asset position of the Group: it may later be determined that a different choice would have been Taxation more appropriate.
The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Notes 1 to 23 Although it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Of those, the policies which require authorities as promptly as possible, at any given time the Group has the most use of managements judgement are as follows: years outstanding and is involved in disputes and tax audits.
Significant issues may take several years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into Valuation of inventories account the views of internal and external advisers and updates the A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & Extremities amount of provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may franchise whose finished goods inventory make up approximately 79% differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax of the Groups total finished goods inventory is the high level of product law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of products, Business combinations including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
The Group has identified growth through acquisitions as one of its These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards Strategic Priorities.
During 2014, we acquired ArthroCare Corporation: the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of the determination of the balance sheet fair value acquired is dependent requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to upon the understanding of the circumstances at acquisition and be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
estimates of the future results of the acquired business and These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based management judgement is a factor in making these determinations.
on levels of inventory compared with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of Operating segments calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does In making decisions about the prioritisation and allocation of the involve management judgement on customer demand, effectiveness of Groups resources, the Commercial Operations team CommOps, inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old thebody considered to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker review products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
financial information on an integrated basis for the Group as a whole and determines the best allocation of resources to group-wide projects.
Impairment In assessing performance, CommOps also consider financial In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and information presented on a geographical selling region and product property, plant and equipment, a number of significant assumptions franchise basis for revenue.
Financial information for corporate and have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include functional costs in presented on a Group-wide basis.
the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for In applying the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or considers the fact that the prioritisation and allocation of resources by products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory CommOps being determined at Group level on a project by basis approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations results in the Group having one operating segment.
arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
