Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 33.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by that Act, the separate Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with the exemption provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own Profit and Loss Account.
a Basis of preparation These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Companys shareholders were notified of, and did not object to, the use of the EU-adopted IFRS disclosure exemptions.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101.
An explanation of how the transition to FRS 101 has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the Company is provided in Note 48.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of adopted IFRS in the transition period.
The following exemptions have been taken in these Financial Statements: Employee benefits all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans have been recognised in equity at 1 January 2014.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 is being applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had not vested by 1 January 2014.
The Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: A Cash Flow Statement and related notes.
Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets.
Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Disclosures in respect of capital management.
The effects of new but not yet effective IFRS.
An additional Balance Sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period, following the reclassification of items in the Financial Statements see Note 48.
Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel.
As the Consolidated Financial Statements of Spectris plc pages 102 to 152 include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of Group-settled share-based payments.
Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
