Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for items that are required by IFRS to be measured at fair value, principally certain financial instruments.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements set out on pages 102 to 152 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies, except for the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations noted below.
No revisions to adopted IFRS that became applicable in 2015 had a significant impact on the Group Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements are presented in millions of Sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2015 and the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 55.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 50 to 55.
In addition, Note 25 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups net debt balance at 31 December 2015 was 98.6m 2014: 125.6m, with available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 371.1m 2014: 316.8m.
The Board has reviewed sensitivity analysis on the Groups forecasts to 30 June 2017, the maturity profile of its financial facilities and liabilities Notes 16 and 26 and the ability of the Group to re-finance these obligations as they fall due.
The principal liquidity risk is mitigated through its financial risk management policies Note 25.
For the foreseeable future, the Board has a high level of confidence that the Group will have the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent, including the impact of reasonable scenarios.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Financial Statements.
There are no key sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
Further information on the going concern of the Group can be found on page 31 in the viability statement.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 and have, therefore, not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for the 31 December 2018 year end.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the results or Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for the 31 December 2018 year end.
IFRS 16 Leases was revised on 13 January 2016 and is effective for the 31 December 2019 year end.
The adoption of this standard removes the distinction between operating and finance leases and will result in all operating leases, above a fide minimis level, being capitalised with the associated assets and liabilities being brought on to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Given the timing of the issuance of the standard, the Directors have not yet evaluated the full impact.
107 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED www.
