Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 18.
Provisions Legal, contractual Product Reorganisation warranty and other Total m m m m At 1 January 2015 0.7 10.4 6.6 17.7 Additional provision in the year 2.6 6.1 5.3 14.0 Acquired on acquisition 0.3 0.3 Utilised during the year 0.3 5.3 0.4 6.0 Released during the year 1.3 2.2 3.5 Foreign exchange difference 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2015 3.0 10.0 9.2 22.2 Provisions are all presented as current liabilities.
Reorganisation Reorganisation provisions relate to committed restructuring plans in place within the business.
Costs are expected to be incurred within one year and there is little judgement in determining the amount.
Product warranty Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and included within the Groups standard terms and conditions.
Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12-month period, but can extend to 36 months.
These extended warranties are not significant.
Legal, contractual and other Legal, contractual and other provisions mainly comprise amounts provided against open legal and contractual disputes arising in the normal course of business.
The Company has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or otherwise and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties.
Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations.
Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors best estimate of the cost of settling current obligations although there is a higher degree of judgement involved.
The increase in the provision during the year is due to a higher legal risk profile in the Group arising from specific matters.
Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these provisions are shown as current.
No provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against Group companies unless management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the Directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that might be brought can be resisted successfully and, therefore, the possibility of any material outflow in settlement is assessed as remote.
Retirement benefit schemes Spectris plc operates funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for the Groups qualifying employees in the UK.
In addition, 12 overseas subsidiaries 2014: 12 in three overseas countries provide defined benefit plans.
Other overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution plans invested in independent funds.
Defined benefit schemes The UK, German, Dutch and Swiss plans provide pensions in retirement, death in service benefits and in some cases disability benefits to members.
The pension benefit is linked to members final salary at retirement and their service life.
Since 31 December 2009, the UK plan has been closed to all service accrual.
The German and Dutch plans are closed to new members.
The UK plan is administered by a pension fund, but the Swiss and Dutch plans are held by insurance companies that are legally separate from the Group.
The UK plan is managed by a Board of Trustees, that represents both employees and employer, which is required to act in the best interest of the plans participants and is responsible for setting certain policies e. g. investment, contribution and indexation policies of the various funds.
