Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for items that are required by IFRS to be measured at fair value, principally certain financial instruments.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements set out on pages 102 to 152 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies, except for the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations noted below.
No revisions to adopted IFRS that became applicable in 2015 had a significant impact on the Group Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements are presented in millions of Sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2015 and the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 55.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 50 to 55.
In addition, Note 25 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups net debt balance at 31 December 2015 was 98.6m 2014: 125.6m, with available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 371.1m 2014: 316.8m.
The Board has reviewed sensitivity analysis on the Groups forecasts to 30 June 2017, the maturity profile of its financial facilities and liabilities Notes 16 and 26 and the ability of the Group to re-finance these obligations as they fall due.
The principal liquidity risk is mitigated through its financial risk management policies Note 25.
For the foreseeable future, the Board has a high level of confidence that the Group will have the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent, including the impact of reasonable scenarios.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Financial Statements.
There are no key sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
Further information on the going concern of the Group can be found on page 31 in the viability statement.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 and have, therefore, not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for the 31 December 2018 year end.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the results or Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for the 31 December 2018 year end.
IFRS 16 Leases was revised on 13 January 2016 and is effective for the 31 December 2019 year end.
The adoption of this standard removes the distinction between operating and finance leases and will result in all operating leases, above a fide minimis level, being capitalised with the associated assets and liabilities being brought on to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Given the timing of the issuance of the standard, the Directors have not yet evaluated the full impact.
107 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED www.
com NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Significant accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, management has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Information about significant areas where judgements, estimates and assumptions are required is included in the following notes: Notes 8 and 20 Taxation and deferred tax.
The assessment and recognition of tax provisions requires management judgement.
In particular the Group is potentially subject to tax audits covering both direct and indirect taxes in many jurisdictions.
By their nature these are often complex and could take a significant period of time to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Judgement is therefore applied based on the interpretation of country specific tax legislation and the likelihood of settlement.
Provisions held in respect of tax risks are included within current and deferred tax liabilities.
Furthermore judgement is also applied relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets which are dependent on an assessment of future taxable income in the relevant countries concerned.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been tested for impairment by estimating the value in use of the cash-generating units to which it has been allocated.
Note 11 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing the impairment tests.
Judgement is applied to assess the level of provisions required to write down slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory to its net realisable value.
Note 14 Provisions for impairment of trade receivables.
Judgement is applied to assess whether a trade receivable is recoverable or not, and whether the level of provision required to write down the value of the receivable to its recoverable amount is appropriate.
Notes 18 and 27 Provisions and contingent liabilities.
Judgement is applied in relation to determining the risk-adjusted probability, quantum and timing of managements best estimate of future payments.
Note 19 Defined benefit pension obligations.
The defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using a number of assumptions, including those related to future inflation, salary increases and mortality, and the obligation is then discounted to its present value using an assumed discount rate.
Judgement is applied in relation to the estimation of the provisional fair values and useful lives of acquired assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
b Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by Group entities to all years presented in these Financial Statements.
Business combinations and goodwill The Group applies IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations for transactions arising after 1 January 2010.
This changed the Groups definition of the cost of business combinations and the treatment of contingent consideration.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration depends on whether this was initially recognised as equity or as a liability and whether the event is considered a measurement period adjustment.
Transaction costs on a business combination are expensed as incurred in the Consolidated Income Statement.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for the interests in subsidiary undertakings over the net fair value to the Group of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised, and any impairment losses are not subsequently reversed.
The net book value of goodwill at the date of transition to IFRS has been treated as deemed cost.
On the subsequent disposal or discontinuance of a previously-acquired business, the relevant goodwill is dealt with in the Consolidated Income Statement except for the goodwill already charged to reserves.
From 1 January 2004, goodwill is allocated on acquisition to cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates and comparing it against the net book value.
This estimate of recoverable amount is determined at each statement of financial position date.
The Groups identified cash-generating units are smaller than the reportable operating segments in Note 3.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash flow performance.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cashgenerating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
108 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets and amortisation The cost of acquiring software including associated implementation costs where applicable that is not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment is classified as an intangible asset.
Self-funded research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless development expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
These criteria include demonstration of the technical feasibility and intent of completing a new intangible asset that will be available for sale and that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits.
From the point where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic lives of the assets to which they relate.
The Directors consider that, due to the nature of projects undertaken, the proportion of development costs incurred that meets the criteria for capitalisation is immaterial.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination that are separable from goodwill are recognised initially at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Other acquired intangible assets including software not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment are initially recognised at cost plus any associated implementation costs where applicable.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits, otherwise it is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administration expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life determined on an asset by asset basis or underlying contractual life.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software 3 to 5 years.
Patents, contractual rights and technology up to 10 years, dependent upon the nature of the underlying contractual right.
Customer-related and trade names 3 to 20 years, dependent upon the underlying contractual arrangements and specific circumstances such as customer retention experience.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost comprises the purchase price paid and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value which is reviewed annually, of property, plant and equipment over its estimated useful economic life.
Depreciation commences on the date the assets are ready for use within the business and the asset carrying values are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
The depreciation charge is revised where useful lives are different from those previously estimated, or where technically obsolete assets are required to be written down.
Where parts of an item of plant and equipment have separate lives, they are accounted for and depreciated as separate items.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property 20 to 40 years.
Short leasehold property over the period of the lease.
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Inventory acquired as part of business combinations is valued at fair value less cost to sell.
Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to bring the inventory to its existing location and condition.
In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Inventory is accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis or, in some cases, a weighted average basis, if deemed more appropriate for the business.
Provisions are made to write down slow-moving, excess and obsolete items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historical and projected usage with regard to quantities on hand.
com NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount which is considered a reasonable proxy for fair value, less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the transactions.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the original carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows receivable.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits held on call or with maturities of less than three months at inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at the amounts expected to be paid to counterparties.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
In respect of warranties, a provision is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefit is probable.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and when there is a valid expectation that such a plan will be carried out.
Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and their corresponding tax bases.
No provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits by overseas subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of intra-group dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
110 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined with reference to the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions are determined using the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, and are charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the Income Statement items of subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange.
Statement of financial position items are translated into Sterling at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to the translation reserve within equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
On disposal of an overseas subsidiary, any cumulative exchange movements relating to that subsidiary held in the translation reserve are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments may be purchased to hedge the Groups exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The accounting policies applied in these circumstances are described below.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are measured at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective-interest basis.
Financial instruments Recognition The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Measurement When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, being the consideration given or received plus directly attributable transaction costs.
In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available, fair value is determined by reference to price quotations for similar instruments traded.
Originated loans and receivables are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset.
This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Originated loans and receivables are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets, is impaired.
A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses US Dollar and Euro-denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
To the extent that the hedge is effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies, caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, the changes in the value of the borrowings are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in foreign exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Employee benefits The Group operates defined benefit post-retirement benefit schemes and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups net obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit schemes is calculated separately for each plan as the present value of the schemes liabilities less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The operating and financing costs of defined benefit schemes are recognised separately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, scheme administrative expense, any gains or losses on settlement or curtailments, and past service costs where benefits have vested.
Finance items comprise the unwinding of the discount on the net asset surplus deficit.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising changes in schemes liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amount of any pension fund asset recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution scheme A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
In certain countries, the Group participates in industry-wide defined benefit-type pension arrangements.
In such circumstances, it is not possible to determine the amount of any surplus or deficit attributable to the Group and the pension costs are accounted for as if the arrangements were defined contribution schemes.
These are not material to the Group and, accordingly, no additional disclosures are provided.
Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
112 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is determined by an external consultant and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Where it is not possible to incentivise managers of the Groups operating companies with equity-settled options, they are issued with cash-settled options.
The charge for these awards is adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of options that vest and the fair value is based on either the share price at date of exercise or the share price at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date if sooner.
Own shares Own equity instruments which are re-acquired own shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid to acquire such equity instruments is recognised within equity.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business to external customers net of returns and discounts, excluding value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
This is typically on delivery when legal title transfers to the customer.
If it is probable that discounts will be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue as the sales are recognised.
For contracts that involve a significant element of installation or testing of equipment, revenue is recognised at the point of customer acceptance.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in proportion to the measurement of the stage of completion of services rendered as at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date.
This is assessed by reference to the amount of time incurred in proportion to the total expected time to be taken to deliver the service.
Occasionally, the initial contract covers both the supply of goods and ongoing support, servicing and maintenance.
For such contracts revenue is allocated across each of the individual components in line with their relative value and each element is accounted for as described above.
Interest payable and receivable Interest payable comprises the interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method and the unwinding of the discount factor on deferred or contingent consideration.
Interest receivable comprises interest income on cash and funds invested and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as it accrues.
