N NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS OTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUE CONTINUE DD 25.
Financial risk management The Groups multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
Financial risk management policies are set by the Board of Directors.
These policies are implemented by a central treasury department that has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk including, where appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined authority and approval limits.
The central treasury department operates as a service centre to the Group and not as a profit centre.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Such instruments are only used to manage the risks arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities or highly probable future transactions.
The quantitative analysis of financial risk is included in Note 26.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group companies transactional exposures and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into the Groups reporting currency of Sterling translational exposures.
The Group has operations around the world which record their results in a variety of different local functional currencies.
In countries where the Group does not have operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency.
The Group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different currencies but the Groups primary exposures relate to the US Dollar, Euro, Danish Krone, Japanese Yen and Swiss Franc.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency risks through the use of forward exchange contracts.
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge highly probable transactions which can be forecast to occur typically up to 18 months into the future.
The Groups translational exposures to foreign currency risks can relate both to the Consolidated Income Statement and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is not to hedge the translational exposure that arises on consolidation of the Consolidated Income Statement of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group finances overseas company investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising on translation of the Groups foreign currency subsidiaries.
The quantitative analysis of foreign currency risk is included in Note 26.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are used to manage the Groups interest rate profile.
As at 31 December 2015, all of the Groups committed borrowings are at fixed rates of interest and therefore the Groups principal interest rate risk is a fair value risk.
The quantitative analysis of interest rate risk is included in Note 26.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk represents the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group manages this risk through the use of regularly updated cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts and a liquidity headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements.
Adequate committed lines of funding are maintained from high-quality investment grade lenders.
The facilities committed to the Group as at 31 December 2015 are set out in Note 16. Credit risk Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash balances, derivative financial instruments, trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of appropriate allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on whether receivables are past due based on contractual terms, payment history and other available evidence of collectability.
Trade receivables are subject to credit limits and control and approval procedures in the operating companies.
Due to its large geographical base and number of customers, the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables.
The quantitative analysis of credit risk relating to receivables is included in Note 14.
146 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 25.
Financial risk management continued Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial instruments is managed centrally by transacting with existing relationship banks with strong investment grade ratings.
Accordingly, the Groups associated credit risk is limited.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, as shown in Note 26.
Capital management The Board considers equity shareholders funds, together with committed debt facilities, as capital for the purposes of funding the Groups operations.
Total managed capital at 31 December is: 2015 2014 m m Equity shareholders funds page 105 966.0 916.0 Committed debt facilities 526.2 474.7 1,492.2 1,390.7 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the Company.
This is carried out through a SAYE option scheme in the UK, as well as performance and restricted share plans.
Full details of these schemes are given in Note 23.
The main financial covenants in the Companys debt facilities are the ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and the ratio of finance charges to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and impairment.
Covenant testing is completed twice a year based on the half-year and year-end Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2015, the Company had, and is expected to continue to have, significant headroom under these financial covenant ratios.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares in the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
