Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS 33.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by that Act, the separate Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with the exemption provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own Profit and Loss Account.
a Basis of preparation These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Companys shareholders were notified of, and did not object to, the use of the EU-adopted IFRS disclosure exemptions.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101.
An explanation of how the transition to FRS 101 has affected the reported financial position and financial performance of the Company is provided in Note 48.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of adopted IFRS in the transition period.
The following exemptions have been taken in these Financial Statements: Employee benefits all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans have been recognised in equity at 1 January 2014.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 is being applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had not vested by 1 January 2014.
The Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: A Cash Flow Statement and related notes.
Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets.
Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Disclosures in respect of capital management.
The effects of new but not yet effective IFRS.
An additional Balance Sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period, following the reclassification of items in the Financial Statements see Note 48.
Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel.
As the Consolidated Financial Statements of Spectris plc pages 102 to 152 include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of Group-settled share-based payments.
Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
com N NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS OTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED CONTINUED 33.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Financial Statements.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the Financial Statements, management has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Companys accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Information about significant areas of judgements, estimates and assumptions are as follows: Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Note 38 Determining whether the Companys investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimations of the investments values in use.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the investments and suitable discount rates in order to calculate present values.
The carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries was 494.9m with an impairment loss recognised of 16.4m in 2015 2014: nil.
Deferred tax Note 39 The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on assessments of future taxable income.
b Summary of significant accounting policies Intangible assets Intangible assets purchased by the Company are capitalised at their cost.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Software 3 to 5 years.
Tangible assets Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost comprises the purchase price paid and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value which is reviewed annually, of tangible assets over their estimated useful economic life.
Depreciation commences on the date the assets are ready for use within the business and the asset carrying values are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold property 20 to 40 years.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries and other investments are stated at historical cost, less provision for any impairment in value.
Trade and other debtors Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at their amortised cost, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits This comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits held on call or with maturities of less than three months at inception.
156 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 33.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Trade and other creditors Trade and other creditors are carried at the amounts expected to be paid to counterparties.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and their corresponding tax bases.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised or that they will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Foreign currency translation The functional currency of the Company is determined with reference to the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, and are charged credited to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Financial instruments Recognition The Company recognises financial assets and liabilities on its Balance Sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Measurement When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, being the consideration given or received plus directly attributable transaction costs.
In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available, fair value is determined by reference to price quotations for similar instruments traded.
Originated loans and debtors are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
com NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 33.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Amounts deferred in equity are reclassified to the Profit and Loss Account in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, in the same line of the Profit and Loss Account as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Company revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Company loses control over the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset.
This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Originated loans and debtors are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Company.
Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets, is impaired.
A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Employee benefits The Company operates a defined benefit post-retirement benefit scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
Defined benefit scheme The Companys net obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of its defined benefit scheme is calculated as the present value of the schemes liabilities less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The operating and financing costs of a defined benefit scheme are recognised separately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, scheme administrative expense, any gains or losses on settlement or curtailments, and past service costs where benefits have vested.
Finance items comprise the unwinding of the discount on the net asset deficit.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising changes in scheme liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount of any pension fund asset recognised in the Balance Sheet is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution scheme A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Share-based payments Certain employees of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is determined by an external consultant and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet reporting date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
158 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
