Strategic Report How and where we operate How we are organised We comprise two businesses: Spirax Sarco for steam specialties and Watson-Marlow for niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path technologies.
Fluid Technology Group Spirax Sarco is the global leader in the supply of Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group specialises engineered solutions for the design, maintenance in the design and manufacture of world-leading and provision of efficient industrial and commercial niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid steam systems.
The Spirax Sarco offering is very wide, from single Our pumps are ideally suited for a wide variety of products through to complete turnkey bespoke applications from biopharmaceutical processes packages that can include design, fabrication, that demand sterility and precision to highly commissioning and maintenance.
Our products and corrosive slurries typically seen in precious metal services help our end users to improve operational processing.
The Watson-Marlow group comprises efficiency, maintain product quality, reduce energy nine established brands, each with its own area of and water use, and comply with health, safety and expertise, but together offering our customers an environmental legislation.
unrivalled breadth of pumping solutions.
For more information visit: www.
com For more information visit: www.
com Read more on pages 69 Read more on pages 1013 Revenue m Adjusted operating Revenue m Adjusted operating profit m profit m 23% 30% 514.6m 114.5m 152.6m 48.0m 77% 70% Before corporate expenses of 10.0m.
We operate in a diverse portfolio of industrial sectors with revenue streams balanced across all key global economies.
Read more on pages 5, 19 and 21 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 4 Annual Report 2015 Our diversied presence and portfolio Summary Expanding our business in 2015: 77 operating units in 43 countries 5 acquisitions Direct sales presence in 57 countries and on six continents 7 new start-ups Global operations at the time of publication, March 2016.
Spirax Sarco operating company began trading in Vietnam after 31st December 2015.
2 disposals Operating companies, branches and Associate.
Including acquired distribution rights in Japan and Colombian distributor.
In April 2015 we In April 2015 we acquired In November 2015 we acquired Valve & Asepco, USA, a specialist acquired Flow Smart, Control Engineering In January 2015, manufacturer of high USA, a specialist in the Ltd, a small anewly established In July 2015 we acquired purity aseptic valves design and manufacture specialist boiler and Spirax Sarco the MasoSine sinusoidal and magnetic mixers for of high purity sanitary valve service and steam specialties pump manufacturing the Biopharmaceutical gaskets, silicone transfer repair business.
operating company and distribution business industry.
Asepco is tubing and hoses.
began trading from PRIMIX Corporation operating as part of our Flow Smart is operating as in Egypt.
The business Watson-Marlow Fluid part of our Watson-Marlow is operating as a new Technology Group.
company within our Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group.
In September 2015 we purchased the steam distribution business In September 2015, from our Colombian a newly established distributor and began operating company trading through a newly In January for Watson-Marlow established Spirax 2015, anewly Fluid Technology Sarco steam specialties established Group began operating company.
Spirax Sarco trading in Taiwan.
steam specialties In July 2015, Spirax operating company began Sarco commenced direct selling in a newly trading in Peru.
established, wholly owned operation In July 2015, in India, following anewly established the sale of our Watson-Marlow Associate company Fluid Technology Spirax Marshall.
Group operating company began Map key trading in Chile.
Spirax operating unit Watson-Marlow operating unit Spirax direct sales presence Watson-Marlow direct sales presence Our core products and services Steam products Engineering consultancy Pumps and uid path technology Key facts 4,800 3,500 100,000 employees product lines customers Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 5 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
