Strategic Report Sustainability overview continued 2014 15 highlights Responsible Responsible Responsible Service Provider Operator Developer Doing more to provide essential services reliably Producing and delivering safe and secure energy Going further than we have to, for the benefit and affordably in the best way we can of local stakeholders Energy price freeze extended to July 2016 A rated by CDP Keadby wind farm sustainability impact report Freezing energy prices until at least July 2016 is the CDP has given SSE an A rating for its performance SSE published its first sustainability impact report longest unconditional energy price commitment in managing its response to climate change and covering the environmental, social and economic ever made to household customers in Great Britain.
included SSE in the 2014 Climate Performance impact of Englands largest wind farm.
Dementia training Meeting the needs of the local community 100 people in SSEs customer service team received Reducing carbon emissions In partnership with the North Sutherland Community specialist training in supporting customers with dementia.
SSE has committed to reduce the carbon intensity of its Forestry Trust, SSE delivered over 100 tonnes generation by 50% compared to 2006 levels by 2020. volume of winter firewood to 83% of the community It achieved an 18% reduction in intensity in 2014 15. neighbouring its Strathy North wind farm development.
Working hard to keep the lights on 24 hours a day During 2014 15, SSEs electricity distribution UK and Irelands largest generator Promoting biodiversity customers experienced fewer interruptions to their of renewable electricity SSEs electricity transmission business has developed electricity supply and, where interruptions occurred, SSE produced more renewable electricity than any standardised Species Protection Plans for all its had on average a 13% reduction in the total time spent other company in the UK and Ireland in 2014 15 construction projects.
In 2014 15 SSE published its without power.
8,655 MWh, from the most diverse range of sources.
first Biodiversity report to reinforce the proactive steps it takes to promote and enhance biodiversity.
Responsible Responsible Responsible Employer Community Member Buyer Creating sustainable employment and a great An active contributor to the communities Procuring what we need in the right way place to work we are part of Maximising impact on local economies Ground-breaking Human Capital Investing in communities SSEs award winning Open4Business online portals In 2014 15 SSEs community benefit schemes in the have awarded over 60m in contracts to local report published UK and Ireland contributed almost 4m to local businesses in the last two years.
A report published by SSE and PwC in March 2015 communities near its developments and over 18m established that the value of SSEs Human Capital has been invested in the last 10 years.
Driving the Living Wage through a 2bn annual supply chain SSE remains a Living Wage employer 5,000 days donated to UK and Irish charities Every relevant contract tendered since 1 April 2014 has All SSEs employees receive at least the Living Wage.
Employees participating in SSEs Be the Difference included a requirement for suppliers to pay the Living volunteering programme donated a total of over Wage to their employees working regularly on SSE sites.
5,000 days to local charities, community groups 11.7m invested in new apprenticeships and sports clubs across the UK and Ireland.
in 2014 15 Setting high standards 146 new apprentices began their career with SSE SSEs Responsible Procurement Charter aims to ensure all in 2014 15.
In total SSE has invested over 64m its suppliers act ethically, sustainably and within the law.
in its apprenticeship scheme since 2007.
Responsible Responsible Responsible Profits Investment Governance Earning profits that serve a purpose Focusing on the long term and accounting Transparent about doing what is right for all our impacts First FTSE 100 company to be accredited Code of Business Practice Investing around 4m per day in SSEs code of business practice makes clear to with the Fair Tax Mark everyone working in SSE the importance of doing In 2014 15 total taxes paid by SSE were 506.2m new energy infrastructure the right thing.
including corporation taxes, employment taxes, In total, over the last five years SSE has invested business rates and environmental taxes.
more than it has made in profit.
New risk management framework An 8.8bn contribution to the UK economy Over 230m invested in renewable energy SSE has reviewed and published the 10 principal risks that it must manage in a responsible way in order to in 2014 15 in 2014 15 deliver long term value.
Over the past three years SSE has contributed over SSE has invested over 2.6bn in renewable energy 27bn to the UK economy and supported on average in the last five years, adding over 1,150MW of new A well governed company 110,000 jobs each year.
renewable capacity in the UK and Ireland.
SSE complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012: with the exception An essential component of UK savings  of the provision covering the award of its external SSE has had a leading role in the development of and pension funds audit contract which it explains fully in its Audit the A4S guide to embedding sustainability into the Around 90% of the top fund managers in the UK Committee report.
decision making process for capex investment.
