Financial Statements No Not te es s o on n t the he f fi inanc nanci ia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s c co on nt tiinue nued d for the year ended 31 March 2015 3 3.. C Cr ri it ti ic ca al a l ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng j g ju ud dg ge em me en nt ts a s an nd k d ke ey s y so ou ur rc ce es o s of e f es st ti im ma at ti io on u n un nc ce er rt ta ai in nt ty y In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The Groups key accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted with the most Significant Financial Judgement areas as specifically discussed by the Audit Committee being highlighted separately.
3.1 Significant financial judgements The preparation of these Financial Statements has specifically considered the following Significant Financial Judgements which include areas of estimation uncertainty and accounting judgement: i Revenue recognition estimated energy consumption estimation uncertainty Revenue from Retail energy supply activities includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This estimation will comprise of values for billed revenue in relation to consumption from unread meters based on estimated consumption taking account of various factors including usage patterns and weather trends disclosed as trade receivables and for unbilled revenue disclosed as accrued income.
The volume of unbilled electricity or gas is calculated by assessing a number of factors such as externally notified volumes supplied to customers, amounts billed to customers and other adjustments.
Unbilled income is calculated by applying the tariffs relevant to the customer type to the calculated volume of electricity or gas.
This estimation methodology is subject to an internal corroboration process that provides support for the judgements made by management.
This process requires the comparison of calculated unbilled volumes to a benchmark measure of unbilled volumes which is derived using independently verified data and by assessing historical weather-adjusted consumption patterns and actual meter data that is used in the industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier.
This aspect of the corroboration process, which requires a comparison of the estimated supplied quantity of gas and electricity that is deemed to have been delivered to customers and the aggregate supplied quantity of gas and electricity applicable to the Groups customers that is measured by industry system operators, is a key judgement.
The experience of the Group is that following the reconciliation procedures the industry deemed supplied quantities in gas have historically been higher than actual metered supply.
As a result, and through a continuous process of investigation into root cause, the Group applies a further judgement being a percentage reduction to unbilled consumption volumes to the measurement of its unbilled revenue in the financial statements.
The sensitivity associated with this judgement factor is disclosed at note 19 on page 156.
A change in this judgement would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
ii Valuation of trade receivables estimation uncertainty The basis of determining the provisions for bad and doubtful debts is explained at note 32 in the section on credit risk and aged debt.
While the provisions are considered to be appropriate, changes in estimation basis or in economic conditions could lead to a change in the level of provisions recorded and consequently on the charge or credit to the income statement.
iii Retirement benefits estimation uncertainty The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are based on the Groups best estimates and are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the level of the retirement benefit obligation recorded and the cost to the Group of administering the schemes.
The value of scheme assets are impacted by the asset ceiling test which a restricts the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered fully through refunds and b may increase the value of scheme liabilities where there are minimum funding liabilities in relation to agreed contributions.
Further detail on the estimation basis is contained in note 30. iv Impairment testing and valuation of certain non-current assets estimation uncertainty The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
Detail on the accounting policies applied is included the Accompanying Information section at page 194.
In conducting its reviews, the Group makes judgements and estimates in considering the recoverable amount of the respective assets or cash-generating units CGUs.
The specific assets under review in the year ended 31 March 2015 are, goodwill, thermal power generation assets, wind farm CGUs, gas storage assets and exploration and production E&P assets.
Changes to the estimates and assumptions on factors such as regulation and legislation changes, power, gas, carbon and other commodity prices, volatility of gas prices, plant running regimes and load factors, expected 2P reserves, highly probable discount rates and other inputs could impact the assessed recoverable value of assets and CGUs and consequently impact the Groups income statement and balance sheet.
Further detail of the basis and assumptions used in the impairment review conducted for the financial year, and the resulting impairment charges, is included at note 13. v Treatment of disputes and claims accounting judgement The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation, regulatory judgements and contractual disputes through the course of its normal operations.
The Group considers each instance separately in accordance with legal advice and will provide and or disclose information as deemed appropriate.
Changes in the assumptions around the likelihood of an outflow of economic resources or the estimation of any obligation would change the values recognised in the financial statements.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 3 3.. C Cr ri it ti ic ca al a l ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng j g ju ud dg ge em me en nt ts a s an nd k d ke ey s y so ou ur rc ce es o s of e f es st ti im ma at ti io on u n un nc ce er rt ta ai in nt ty y c con ont tiinue nued d 3.2 Other key accounting judgements Other key accounting judgements and presentation applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements include the following: i Exceptional items and certain re-measurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of joint ventures and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
These items will be non-recurring and may include items such as asset or CGU impairment charges, restructuring costs or contractual settlements.
Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
ii Adjusted measures The Directors assess the performance of the reportable segments Operating profit loss by segment, note 4 ii based on an adjusted profit before interest and tax measure.
This is the basis used for internal performance management and is believed to be appropriate for explaining underlying performance.
The adjusted profit before interest and tax is reconciled to reported profit before interest and tax by adding back exceptional items, the net interest costs associated with defined benefit schemes, remeasurements arising from IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation on profits from joint ventures and associates.
In addition, adjusted profit after tax will be reported on a basis consistent with this change.
The Directors also present details of an adjusted earnings per share measure, which is based on basic earnings per share before exceptional items, the net interest costs associated with defined benefit schemes, remeasurements arising from IAS 39 and after the removal of deferred taxation.
The adjusted measures are considered more reflective of the Groups underlying performance, are consistent with way the Group is managed and avoids volatility arising from IAS 39 fair value measurements.
This measure is also deemed the most useful for the ordinary shareholders of the Group.
The financial statements also include an adjusted net debt and hybrid capital measure.
This presents the information on the basis used for internal liquidity risk management.
This measure, which excludes obligations due under finance leases, represents the capital owed to investors, lenders and equity holders other than the ordinary shareholders.
As with adjusted earnings per share, this measure is considered to be of particular relevance to the ordinary shareholders of the Group as well as other stakeholders and interested parties.
Reconciliations from reported measures to adjusted measures are included in SSEs financial results explained at pages 112 and 113. iii Business Combinations and acquisitions Business combinations and acquisitions require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of this purchase price to the identifiable assets and liabilities with any unallocated portion being recorded as goodwill.
Business combinations are disclosed in note 17. iv Energy Company Obligation ECO costs The Energy Company Obligation ECO legislation, in force since 1 January 2013, requires qualifying energy suppliers to meet defined targets by providing measures to improve the energy efficiency of and level of carbon emissions from UK domestic households.
The targets for the Groups Energy Supply business are set based on historic customer information with delivery of the measures being required by 31 March 2017.
The Group believes it is not technically obligated to provide those measures until the end of the delivery period.
As a consequence and applying applicable accounting standards, the costs of ECO are recorded when measures are delivered or other qualifying expenditure has been incurred.
3.3 Other areas of estimation uncertainty i Provisions and contingencies The assessments undertaken in recognising provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with IAS 37.
Provisions are calculated based on estimations.
The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent events has required best judgement by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss.
Should circumstances change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
ii Decommissioning costs The estimated costs of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of the assets is reviewed periodically.
Decommissioning costs in relation to gas exploration and production assets are based on expected lives of the fields and costs of decommissioning and are currently expected to be incurred predominantly between 2017 and 2030. iii Gas and liquids reserves The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of producing gas and liquids property, plant and equipment.
This is also a significant input estimate to the associated impairment and decommissioning calculations.
The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable reserves is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of producing assets over the expected future production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down impairment of the assets book value.
