Intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows: 2015 2014 m m Current 433.5 433.7 Non-current: Goodwill 598.0 585.1 Other 170.4 304.2 1,201.9 1,323.0 145 Financial Statements No Not te es s o on n t the he f fi inanc nanci ia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s c co on nt tiinue nued d for the year ended 31 March 2015 1 13 3.. G Go oo od dwi wil ll a l an nd o d ot th he er i r in nt ta an ng gi ib bl le a e as ss se et ts s c con ont tiinue nued d 13.1 Impairment review of goodwill and basis of other impairment reviews Goodwill arising from business combinations is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for impairment testing purposes.
Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation.
A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the Groups operating segments is presented below: 2015 2014 Cash-generating unit Operating Segment m m Ireland wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 112.6 131.5 GB wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 199.9 199.9 GB Energy Supply Energy Supply 187.0 187.0 GB Generation Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 10.1 Exploration and Production Gas Production 38.1 Enterprise i Enterprise 90.3 10.3 Ireland Supply Energy Supply 8.2 8.2 598.0 585.1 i Enterprise represents goodwill balances arising from historic acquisitions of Telecoms and Contracting businesses Energy-related services businesses and 80.0m in relation to the acquisition of the Energy Solutions Group ESG during the year.
The amount of goodwill associated with the historic businesses is not significant in context of the aggregate carrying value of the business units orthe aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.
In the previous year, 0.8m of the Enterprise goodwill was impaired through consideration of ongoing tradingprospects with other impairments of 1.9m being recognised as part of the exceptional charges associated with the 26 March 2014 restructuring announcement.
The recoverable amounts of the GB Energy Supply, Gas Storage and Exploration and Production CGUs are determined by reference to value-in-use calculations.
The value-in-use calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups five year Corporate Model, as approved by the Board.
The Groups Corporate Model is based on past experience and reflects the Groups forward view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives.
Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.
The recoverable amount of the wind farm CGUs is based on the fair value less costs to sell methodology.
The basis applied has been deemed appropriate as it is consistent with the way in which the economic values of the CGUs are assessed by management and how they would be by other market participants.
The method applied is to determine fair value by assessing the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be earned by the individual wind farm projects within the respective CGUs.
The two identified CGUs Ireland wind farms and UK wind farms share many of the same risk factors and are accordingly discounted using the same discount rates.
The key assumptions used for the main value-in-use calculations are as follows: 2015 and 2014 2015 and 2014 Cash flow Discount rate projection period Cash-generating unit Operating Segment % years Ireland and GB wind farms onshore and offshore Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 7.0% 9.0% up to 25 GB Energy Supply Energy Supply 7.3% 5 GB Generation excluding wind Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 7.3% up to 15 Gas Storage Gas Storage 7.3% 25 Exploration and Production Gas Production 8.0% 10.0% Life of field Management have determined the pre-tax cash flows of each CGU based on past performance and its expectations of market development.
Further detail on how the cash flow projections have been derived is included in the specific commentaries.
The discount rates used are pre-tax real and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant operating segments.
The discount rates used have been benchmarked against externally published rates used by comparable quoted companies operating in the respective market sectors.
The discount rates applied in both 2015 and 2014 remain consistent across all CGUs, reflecting the Groups view of cost of capital and risk.
The recoverable amount derived from the value-in-use calculation is compared to the carrying amount of each CGU to determine whether the respective CGUs require to be impaired.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 13 3.. G Go oo od dwi wil ll a l an nd o d ot th he er i r in nt ta an ng gi ib bl le a e as ss se et ts s c con ont tiinue nued d Specific comments on the key value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations for the main CGUs and the results of the tests conducted follow: i Wind farm CGUs For goodwill impairment testing purposes, the significant wind farm CGUs were established following the acquisition of the SSE Renewables formerly Airtricity business in 2008.
In order to assess the respective recoverable amounts against an appropriate carrying value, goodwill was allocated to the main geographic regions in which the business operates.
The established CGUs Ireland and GB have subsequently been assessed by considering the specific market attributes of those regions.
Currency cash flows are set at the exchange rate at the time the impairment test is conducted.
Aside from the specific market factors, the basis of review of the respective CGUs is identical.
Wind farm projects have an estimated useful life of up to 25 years and it is considered appropriate by management to assess the carrying amount against cash flow projections covering this period.
The Ireland and GB wind CGUs include wind farms in operation and both CGUs include projects in the construction phase.
Projects that are in development are those which have not received consent or have not concluded all environmental or planning studies.
Following the scaling back of the Groups commitment to offshore development, cash flows from all such projects have been excluded from the goodwill impairment review.
Cash inflows for all projects are based on expected generation output based on wind studies and past experience and are valued at forward power prices based on market information, where available, continuing government support for wind ROCs and internal model assumptions.
Cash outflows are based on planned capital expenditure and expected maintenance costs.
The power prices and costs of operation are the most significant distinguishing factors in the respective CGU regions.
Growth is based on the expected output of the respective wind farms at their available operational capacity over their life cycle and on delivery of projects in the development pipeline.
Outcome of tests The recoverable amount of the GB wind farm CGU exceeded the carrying values of the CGU at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the fair value less costs-to-sell would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
In the prior year, the recoverable amount of the Ireland wind farm CGU was below the carrying value of associated assets and accordingly an exceptional impairment charge of 20.0m was recognised.
In the current year, it has been assessed that the recoverable amount associated with this CGU exceeds the carrying value.
ii GB Energy Supply Goodwill carried in relation to the acquisition, in 2001, of Swalec is attributed to the Groups GB retail electricity and gas supply business CGU.
The CGU is equivalent to the Energy Supply reported segment, with the exception of the Airtricity supply business in Ireland.
Margins assumed in the value-in-use test are based on the current view of retail prices and direct and indirect costs of the business in this period.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the GB Energy Supply CGU exceeded the respective carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
iii GB generation excluding wind Following the impairment of the Abernedd intangible development asset see note 13.2, the associated goodwill of 10.1m was also derecognised in the year.
The operational plants in Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation are operated as part of the integrated business segment.
All main thermal generation plants exhibiting indications of impairment due to market and regulatory conditions have been assessed to ascertain the impact on carrying values see note 14. iv Exploration and production Following the impairment review of the Groups gas production assets in the light of significant reductions in wholesale gas prices, the associated goodwill recognised on the purchase of North Sea assets in 2011 was fully impaired in the year.
More detail in relation to the Gas Production business impairment reviews noted at notes 6 and 14.
2 Other intangible assets i Allowances and certificates Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates ROCs.
