Financial Statements Financial Statements No Not te es s o on n t the he f fi inanc nanci ia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s for the year ended 31 March 2015 1 1.. G Ge en ne era ral i l inf nfo or rm ma at ti io on a n an nd b d ba as si is o s of p f pre rep pa ara rat ti io on n 1.1 General information SSE plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 1 to 13.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
1.2 Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 19 May 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and its interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 32 of the Financial Statements on pages 177 and 178.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and assets of the Group pension schemes which are stated at their fair value, and liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at pages 126 to 127.
2 2.. Su Sum mm mar ary y o of f s si ig gn ni if fi ic can ant t ne new w a ac cc co ou un nt ti ing ng po pol li ic ci ie es s an and d r re epo por rt ti ing ng c chang hange es s The basis of consolidation and principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below and in the Accompanying Information section A1 on pages 189 to 196.
2.1 New standards, amendments and interpretations which are effective in financial year ended March 2015 i IFRIC 21 The Group has adopted IFRIC 21: Levies in the current financial year.
The interpretation clarifies that an entity should recognise liabilities for qualifying levies on the occurrence of an activity that triggers an obligation to the relevant authority.
Qualifying levies fall within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets but not within the scope of IAS 12 Income taxes or other standards.
The adoption of the interpretation has had no impact on the Groups accounting policies or on the results of the Group for the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
The interpretation will be applied by the Group in relation to its mandated funding, as a licenced energy supplier, of the Contracts for Difference CfDs scheme introduced by the UK Government on 1 April 2015. ii IFRS 10, 11 and 12 IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11: Joint arrangements, IFRS 12: Disclosures of interests in other entities, and revisions to IAS 27: Separate financial statements and IAS 28: Investments in associates and joint ventures have been adopted by the Group in the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
The most significant impact for the Group relates to the adoption of IFRS 11.
Under this standard, the Group has assessed its joint arrangements in order to identify those which require to be classified as joint operations rather than joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where the venturers are deemed to have joint control and have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement as opposed to having rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Accordingly, a joint operator will recognise its share of the operations assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses in the consolidated financial statements rather than its net share of the result of the venture.
The Group has assessed that its investment in Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited falls within this category under the standard but that all other joint arrangements held by the Group are classified as joint ventures, which will continue to be equity accounted.
This has resulted in the restatement of the Groups Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for the year to 31 March 2014.
These restatements are summarised below.
It should be noted that as the Group currently reports its adjusted profit measures including its respective shares of operating profit, interest and tax of the affected investments, no change arises in respect of the measures reported internally and in the Annual Report in respect of underlying performance.
