Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 167 245 4699 100164 165176 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy fifth Annual General i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC the Company may be practicable to their existing holdings: and will be held in the Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as rd Wednesday, 23 March 2016 at 12.00 noon to consider and, the directors otherwise consider necessary, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as resolutions 16 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions.
the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or Ordinary business legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the 1.
That the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock th financial year ended 30 November 2015 be received.
exchange in, any country or territory, 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of part containing the directors remuneration policy, set the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this out on pages 70 to 93 of the Annual Report and Financial nd resolution or 22 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, but, th Statements for the financial year ended 30 November in each case, so that the Company may make offers and 2015 be approved.
enter into agreements before the expiry of such authority th which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights 3.
That a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be November 2015 of 3.85p per ordinary share payable st granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares on 1 April 2016 to those shareholders on the register th or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if of members at the close of business on 4 March 2016 the authority had not expired.
That Rob Hudson be elected as a director.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to 5.
That Ian Bull be re-elected as a director.
the passing of resolution 15, the directors be generally 6.
That Steve Burke be re-elected as a director.
empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to allot equity securities within the 7.
That Kay Chaldecott be re-elected as a director.
meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 15 and or where 8.
That Simon Clarke be re-elected as a director.
the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities 9.
That Lesley James be re-elected as a director.
by virtue of section 560 3 of the 2006 Act, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the 2006 Act, provided 10.
That Richard Mully be re-elected as a director.
that such power to be limited to: 11.
That Bill Oliver be re-elected as a director.
a the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 12.
That Bill Shannon be re-elected as a director.
authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 15 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity 13.
That Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor of the securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the 2006 Act Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set general meeting atwhich accounts are laid.
out in paragraph b of this resolution up to a nominal 14.
That the Audit Committee be authorised to determine amount of 2,218,769: and the remuneration of the Companys auditor on behalf of b the allotment of equity securities in connection with an the Board.
offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment Special business pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b 15.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities and without of resolution 15, such power shall be limited to the prejudice to previous allotments or offers or agreement allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer to allot made pursuant to such authorities, the directors by way of a rights issue only : be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act may be practicable to their existing holdings: and to exercise all the powers of the Company to: ii to holders of other equity securities, as required a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to by the rights of those securities or, subject to such subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,395,899: and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to b allot equity securities within the meaning of section deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or 560 of the 2006 Act up to a further aggregate nominal legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the amount of 7,359,899 in connection with an offer by requirements of any regulatory body orany stock way of a rights issue to: exchange in, any country or territory, St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 168 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special business continued Recommendation such power to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions Company to be held after the date of the passing of this are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders nd resolution or 22 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, but so as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements that shareholders vote in favour of each of the above before the power expires which would or might require equity resolutions, as they intend todo in respect of their own securities to be allotted after such power expires and the beneficial shareholdings.
directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
By order of the Board Special resolution 17.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the 2006 Act of Tanya Stote ordinary shares of 10p each in its capital Ordinary Shares Company Secretary on such terms and in such manner as the directors may th 18 February 2016 from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 22,187,698: St. Modwen Properties PLC b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Registered number: 349201 Share is 10p exclusive of expenses : Registered Office: Park Point, 17 High Street, Longbridge, c the maximum price which may be paid for an Birmingham B31 2UQ Ordinary Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for any number of Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange: and d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this resolution nd or 22 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, except in relation to the purchase of any Ordinary Shares the contract for which was concluded before the date of expiry of the authority and which would or might be completed wholly or partly after that date.
That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the new Articles of Association of the Company produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, its existing Articles of Association.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 169 245 4699 100164 165176 Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions Resolutions 13 and 14 Auditor appointment and remuneration Ordinary resolutions At last years AGM shareholders re-appointed Deloitte LLP For a resolution proposed as an ordinary resolution to be as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of of the 2016 AGM.
Deloitte has expressed a willingness to the resolution.
continue in office and the Audit Committee has reviewed the Resolution 1 Annual Report and Financial Statements effectiveness of the audit process and recommends their Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the Annual re-appointment.
Therefore resolutions 13 and 14 are ordinary Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor until the th 30 November 2015.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report to determine their remuneration on behalf of the Board.
Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares directors remuneration policy.
Resolution 2 is an advisory The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to resolution and does not affect the future remuneration allot shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the paid to any director.
A resolution to approve the directors 2016 AGM.
Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution to renew remuneration policy set out in full in the Annual Report and this authority.
th Financial Statements for the year ended 30 November 2013 The Investment Association IA guidelines on directors which is available at www.
co. uk was approved by authority to allot shares state that IA members will permit, shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot new Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend shares representing up to one-third of a companys issued Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders share capital.
In addition, they will treat as routine a request for are asked to declare a final dividend.
The directors recommend authority to allot shares representing an additional one-third of th a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 November a companys issued share capital provided that it is only used to 2015 of 3.85p per ordinary share.
If approved, this will be paid allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
st on 1 April 2016 to shareholders on the register of members at Paragraph a of resolution 15 will, if resolution 15 is passed, th the close of business on 4 March 2016. authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum Resolutions 4 to 12 Election and re-election of directors aggregate nominal amount of 7,395,899, which represents Resolutions 4 to 12 are ordinary resolutions which deal with one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at th the election and re-election of the directors.
9 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution th Following his appointment to the Board on 28 September 15 proposes that, in accordance with IA guidance, an additional 2015 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of authority be conferred on the directors to allot shares in Association, Rob Hudson will retire and offer himself for connection with a rights issue up to a further maximum election at the 2016 AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer aggregate nominal amount of 7,395,899. themselves for re-election in accordance with the 2014 UK The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution Corporate Governance Code.
15 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 48 Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without and 49. prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
The authorities will The performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of contribution made by individual directors, has been reviewed nd the Company and 22 June 2017. during the course of the year.
After considering this evaluation, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of every The directors have no present intention of exercising these executive and non-executive director continues to be effective, authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their under its share incentive schemes approved previously by respective roles, and that their respective skills complement shareholders, but believe that it is in the best interests of one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
the Company to have the authorities available to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place without the need for ageneral meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
Special resolutions For a resolution proposed as a special resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 170 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution continued 16 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without Resolution 16 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity allot made under such existing authorities.
The authorities will securities company law requires that these shares are offered each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Resolution 16 is a special resolution which seeks to renew the The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to issue authority other than to fulfil the Companys obligations equity securities of the Company for cash without application under its share incentive schemes approved previously by of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the shareholders, but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility Companies Act 2006. that this authority provides.
Paragraph a of resolution 16 will, if resolution 16 is passed, Resolution 17 Authority to purchase shares authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the Resolution 17 is a special resolution to renew the authority authority given in paragraph a of resolution 15 for cash up to granted to the directors at last years AGM to make market a maximum aggregate nominal value of 2,218,769, equivalent purchases of its own ordinary shares through the market as to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at th permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and within institutional 9 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to shareholder guidelines.
No shares were purchased during the the publication of the notice of AGM without the shares first year and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 22,187,698 of its ordinary shares, which In addition, in light of the IA guidance described in the represents 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital explanation of resolution 15 above, paragraph b of resolution th as at 9 February 2016 being the latest practicable date 16 will, if resolution 16 is passed, authorise the directors to prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
The resolution allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph specifies the minimum and maximum prices which may be b of resolution 15 for cash in connection with a rights issue paid for any ordinary shares purchased under this authority.
without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders The authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the in proportion to their existing holdings.
nd next AGM of the Company and 22 June 2017.
This authority is in line with institutional shareholder guidance, The directors have no present intention for the Company to and in particular with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its Principles the Pre-Emption Principles revised in March 2015 own shares.
They would do so only after taking account of the to allow the authority for an issue of shares for cash otherwise overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to be increased where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in from 5% to 10% of a companys issued ordinary share capital, the best interests of shareholders generally and result in an provided that the company confirms that it intends to use the increase in earnings per ordinary share.
The Company may additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition either cancel any shares it purchases under this authority or or specified capital investment within the meaning of the transfer them into treasury and subsequently sell or transfer Pre-Emption Principles.
The directors therefore confirm, in them out of treasury or cancel them.
accordance with the Pre-Emption Principles: th As at 9 February 2016 being the latest practicable date a that to the extent the authority in paragraph a of prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company resolution 16 is used for an issue of ordinary shares with a had options outstanding over 6,047,076 ordinary shares, nominal value in excess of 1,109,384, representing 5% of the th representing 2.73% of the issued share capital on that date.
Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 9 February If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, the options of the notice of AGM, they intend that this authority will only th outstanding at 9 February 2016 would represent 3.41% of be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital theissued share capital.
investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue: and b that, excluding any shares issued in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as described above, they intend not to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital for cash other than to existing shareholders in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 171 245 4699 100164 165176 Resolution 18 Notice period of general meetings 2.
Appointment of proxies - general Resolution 18 is a special resolution to renew an authority A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting granted at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold convened by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a general meetings other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend days notice.
and to speak and vote on his or her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by The Companies the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 increased the notice the rights attached to a different share or shares held by period required for general meetings of the Company to that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice Company but must attend the meeting in person.
period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
This approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM when it is For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
appointment of proxy, see note 4 below must be received by the Companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of time of the meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Monday, routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is st 21 March 2016.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
AGMs will continue voting in person ifhe or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
to be held on atleast 21 clear days notice.
Appointment of proxies proxy form Resolution 19 Adoption of new Articles of Association A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment The Company regularly reviews the suitability of its Articles and give proxy instructions has been sent to shareholders.
of Association following developments in applicable law and If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should regulation and UK market practice.
It is proposed that the have one, or if you require additional forms to appoint more Company adopts new Articles of Association the New Articles than one proxy, please contact the Companys registrars, principally in order to reflect developments in current practice, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2198 overseas callers should dial and to provide clarification and additional flexibility in relation to 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open from 8.30am to certain matters.
The existing Articles of Association were most 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK bank holidays.
th recently updated and adopted by the Company on 26 March Alternatively photocopy the proxy form which has been sent to 2010.
A summary of the principal changes being proposed in you.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together the New Articles are summarised in the Appendix to this notice in the same envelope.
Other changes, which are deemed to be of a minor, non-substantive, technical or clarificatory nature including, The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy where relevant, to certain defined terms, have not been noted to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note in the Appendix.
A copy of the Companys existing Articles of that the vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided Association, a copy of the New Articles and a copy marked up to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution: it is to show the proposed changes will be available for inspection not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of of votes for or against the resolution.
If you sign the proxy Mayer Brown International LLP, 201 Bishopsgate, London form and return it without any specific directions your proxy EC2M 3AF during normal business hours from the date of this will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
If you notice of AGM until the close of the AGM, and at the place of wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman of the the AGM from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until meeting, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder the end of the meeting.
in the space provided on the proxy form.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, Shareholder notes please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated st members at 6.00pm on Monday, 21 March 2016 or, in the account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two designated account.
days before the date of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend of the holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined registered in their name at that time.
It is proposed that all by the order in which the names appear in the Companys votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of register of members in respect of the joint holding.
case of a corporate shareholder, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
In the case of an individual, the proxy form must be signed by the appointing shareholder.
Any alterations made to the proxy form should be initialled.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 172 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Shareholder notes continued The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 4.
Appointment of proxies electronically Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through 6.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions Equinitis website at www.
co. uk using their personal To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number which appointment using the methods set out above.
The deadline are printed on the proxy form.
Alternatively, shareholders for receipt of proxy appointments see note 2 above also who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio applies in relation to amended instructions.
Where two or more service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of logging on to their portfolio at www.
Full details the same share and for the same meeting, those received last and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given by Equiniti will take precedence.
A proxy appointment made In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need electronically willnot be valid if sent to any address other than to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice those provided or if received after 12.00 noon on Monday, st clearly stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment 21 March 2016. to Equiniti Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 5.
Appointment of proxies through CREST 6DA.
In the case of a corporate shareholder, the revocation CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on the AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
Any power electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those of attorney must be included with the revocation notice.
CREST members who have appointed a voting service The revocation must be received no later than 12.00 noon on provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting st Monday, 21 March 2016.
If a shareholder attempts to revoke service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate his or her proxy appointment but the revocation is received action on their behalf.
after the time specified the original proxy appointment will remain valid.
Termination of proxy appointments made In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using through CREST must be made in accordance with the the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message procedures described in the CREST Manual.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Ltds EUI 7.
Corporate representatives specifications and must contain the information required for A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers at www.
The message, regardless of whether it as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation relates to the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti ID appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments for further guidance.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be 8.
Nominated persons taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement with communicated to the appointee through other means.
the shareholder who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such right or does not wish or voting service providers should note that EUI does not to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a make available special procedures in CREST for any particular right to give voting instructions to the shareholder.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service If you are a Nominated Person it is important to remember provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that your main contact in terms of your investment remains that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members administers the investment on your behalf.
and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 173 245 4699 100164 165176 9.
Communication with the Company Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice questions relating to the business of the meeting and the of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless tocommunicate with the Company for any purposes other i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the than those expressly stated.
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
Website publication of audit concerns Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter that such shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company cannot require the shareholders requesting the publication to pay its expenses in complying with the request.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time the statement is made available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006.
Total voting rights th As at 9 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 221,876,988 shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at th 9 February 2016 was 221,876,988.
Documents available for inspection The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until the end of the meeting: i copies of the directors service contracts with the Company: ii copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: iii a copy of the Companys existing Articles of Association, acopy of the New Articles and a copy of the existing Articles of Association marked up to show the proposed changes: and iv a copy of the Companys indemnity for directors.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 174 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Appendix This appendix sets out a summary of the principal changes 6. Dividend payment procedure proposed to be made to the Companys existing Articles The New Articles have been amended following guidance of Association.
published by the ICSA Registrars Group in March 2014 to provide the Company with additional flexibility to prescribe the 1.
Share warrants manner in which dividends are paid.
Currently the Company The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 pays dividends by electronic payment, cheque or similar prohibits the creation of new bearer shares and requires financial instrument.
The use of cheques and similar financial existing bearer shares to be converted into registered instruments has reduced in recent years and there has been a shares.
In light of this, the provisions in the existing Articles of significant focus on the development of new payment methods, Association relating to share warrants have been removed which are intended to improve the security of payments to from the New Articles.
shareholders and to reduce costs.
Although the existing Articles of Association permit the payment of dividends by electronic 2.
Retirement and re-election of directors means, the New Articles allow the directors to determine The New Articles have been amended to reflect the Companys how dividends are paid to shareholders, which method shall established practice, in line with the UK Corporate Governance be the default method for paying dividends and whether Code and current best practice, that all directors be subject to shareholders may or may not make an election for payments annual re-election by shareholders.
The New Articles provide to be made other than in the default manner.
It is not the that at each AGM every director retires from office and each Boards intention to change the current methods of payment at director wishing to remain in office is required to stand for this time.
However, it is important that the Company is able to election or re-election as appropriate.
cater for new developments and changes in practice, including 3.
Directors below minimum through vacancies considering the efficiency and costs saving that would flow The New Articles include language to deal with a situation from a change to electronic only payment.
The New Articles where the number of directors required under the Articles further specify when a dividend or other sum will be treated as of Association falls below the minimum.
Currently the Boards unclaimed for the purposes of the Articles of Association.
powers in this regard are limited.
The amended wording in the 7.
Scrip dividends New Articles would allow the Board to remain fully functional in The existing Articles of Association already enable the directors this situation until additional directors have been appointed.
to offer shareholders a scrip dividend scheme if authorised by 4.
Directors fees an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
In line with recent The cap on the fees payable to directors for their services in the institutional investor guidance, the provision stating that a office of director has been increased in the New Articles from resolution to authorise a scrip dividend for a period of five 600,000 per annum to 800,000 per annum.
This increase years has been removed.
would provide the Company with sufficient headroom and 8.
Indemnity and insurance flexibility in order to increase the number of directors and As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, provisions for the maintain its directors fees in line with the market.
Whilst the indemnification of a director of an associated company against Company does not anticipate any significant increase to liabilities incurred in connection with that associated companys directors fees or any significant increases to the size of the activities as trustee of an occupational pension scheme of the Board, the directors believe that it is prudent to maintain Company have been included in the New Articles.
Any increase to fees will be in line with the directors remuneration policy, last approved by 9.
Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer 5.
Company name language into the New Articles wherever appropriate.
The New Articles give the directors the power to resolve to change the Companys name, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
