St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 110 Financial Statements Accounting policies th for the year ended 30 November 2015 Basis of preparation The Groups Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the EU as they apply to the Group for the year th ended 30 November 2015, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme.
In the current year the Group has adopted: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments: Presentation assets and liability offsetting IAS 36 amendment Impairment of Assets IAS 39 amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12 transition guidance The Group undertook an assessment of the treatment of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and interests in other entities prior to the adoption of IFRS 10, 11 and 12.
Other than as detailed below in prior year restatements for IFRS 10, it was concluded that no changes in relation to the presentation of these interests was required.
IFRS 10 replaces those parts of IAS 27 that relate to consolidated financial statements and SIC 12 in its entirety.
It outlines the requirements for the preparation of consolidated financial statements, requiring an entity to consolidate the results of all investees it is considered to control.
Control exists where an entity is exposed to variable returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Companys functional currency together with that of all of its subsidiaries and the presentation currency for the Group is pounds sterling and its principal IFRS accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Groups Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls.
Control comprises exposure, or rights, to variable returns, the power to direct the relevant activities of the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the returns.
This is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by contractual agreement.
A list of the entities controlled is given in note F to the Companys Financial Statements.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and are presented separately within equity in the Group Balance Sheet.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 111 245 4699 100164 165176 Interests in joint arrangements Arrangements under which the Group has contractually agreed to share control with another party or parties are assessed to determine whether they represent joint ventures or joint operations.
Joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Should the parties have rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the arrangement they would instead be classified as joint operations.
Currently, all arrangements where the Group has contractually agreed to share control have been determined to be joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interests in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the joint ventures results after interest and tax.
Financial Statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the joint venture entities outside the Income Statement.
Interests in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and is adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement as a release of negative goodwill to income.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of exchange.
The discount rate used is the entitys incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate that a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability.
Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
Properties Investment properties Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreciation and or for undetermined future use, together with land options where the land is for an undetermined future use, are carried at fair value following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable.
To establish fair value, investment properties are independently valued on the basis of market value.
Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale commences, at which point the asset is transferred to inventories at current valuation.
Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the Income Statement.
Investment property disposals are recognised on completion.
Profits and losses arising are recognised through the Income Statement and the profit or loss on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 112 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued th for the year ended 30 November 2015 Properties continued Inventories Inventories principally comprise properties held for sale, properties under construction and land under option with a view to future sale.
All inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises land, direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
When inventory includes a transfer from investment properties, cost is recorded as the book value at the date of transfer.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Inventory is transferred to investment properties only when the asset meets the definition of an investment property and there has been a change in use evidenced by commencement of an operating lease.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between properties on the site.
Such site-wide costs are allocated to properties based on the forecast value of each individual unit as a proportion of the aggregate forecast value of the individual units on the site.
In making these assessments, there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Operating property, plant and equipment Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: leasehold operating properties over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years: and plant, machinery and equipment over two to five years.
Leases The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the Income Statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Interests in leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the value of guaranteed minimum rents inherent within the carrying value of the property and the liability reflected within long-term liabilities.
On payment of a guaranteed rent, initially the majority of such costs is charged to the Income Statement as interest payable, with the balance reducing the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases, adjusted for the impact of any cash incentives given to the lessee and to reflect any rent-free incentive periods, is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging a new lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that will not be taxable or deductible.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements, using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date, with the following exceptions: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 113 245 4699 100164 165176 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity or other comprehensive income.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Income Statement.
Pensions The Group operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section st isclosed to new members and, from 1 September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods todetermine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised inthe Income Statement on the earlier of: the date on which the plan amendment or curtailment occurs: or when the Company recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised in the Income Statement as finance cost.
Actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset orliability in the Balance Sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
When a pension asset net surplus arises from the above calculation, it is limited to the present value of any economic benefits that will be available to the Company in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC14.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Income Statement in the year in which they become payable.
Own shares Shares in St. Modwen Properties PLC held by the Group are classified as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the Company and are recognised at cost.
Dividends Dividends declared and approved after the Balance Sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received including the fair value of any residential properties received in part-exchange, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
Where required, revenue is allocated between components in a multi-element transaction e. g. where there is simultaneously a sale of land and a construction contract with the purchaser of the land based on their respective fair values of the components.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of property Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale.
Construction contracts Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
An appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Management and performance fees Where the Group is solely providing development management services without being responsible for the performance of the underlying construction, management fees receivable are recognised over time as the service is performed in the period to which they relate.
Performance fees are recognised when the Group has substantially fulfilled its obligations in respect of the transaction and hence the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 114 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued th for the year ended 30 November 2015 Revenue recognition continued Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the Balance Sheet date.
The extent to which the contract is complete is determined by the total costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total anticipated costs of the entire contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Government grants Government grants relating to property are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.
Share-based payments The Groups equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value at the date of grant or at date of reclassification from cash settled to equity settled is expensed onastraight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value hierarchy Assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, are required to be grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for any amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value or recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturity less than three months.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recorded at amortised cost.
Where payment is on deferred terms the liability is initially recorded by discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 115 245 4699 100164 165176 Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income orfinance expense, as appropriate.
The effective interest rate method is used to charge interest to the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The Group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the Income Statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received less direct issue costs.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are assessed on issue as to whether they should be classified as a financial liability, as equity or as a compound financial instrument with both debt and equity components.
This assessment is based on the terms of the bond and in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The Groups convertible bonds have been designated as at fair value through profit and loss.
Use of estimates and judgements To be able to prepare Financial Statements according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the Financial Statements.
These estimates are based on the Groups systems of internal control, historical experience and the advice of external experts including qualified professional valuers and actuaries together with various other assumptions that management and the Board believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgements that may significantly impact the Groups earnings and financial position are: Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Strategic Report and as confirmed th in the Directors Report it is considered appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 November 2015 on a going concern basis.
Valuation of investment properties Management has used the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuation is performed according to RICS rules, using appropriate levels of professional judgement for the prevailing market conditions.
Professional judgement is applied in determining such things as an appropriate yield for a given property and estimated rental values.
Net realisable value of inventories The Group has ongoing procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventories and identifying where this is in excess of net realisable value.
Managements assessment of any resulting provision requirement is, where applicable, supported by independent information supplied by the external valuers.
The estimates and judgements for both revenue and costs were based th on information available at, and pertaining to, 30 November 2015.
Any subsequent adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional provisions being required.
Estimation of remediation and other costs to complete for both development and investment properties In making an assessment of these costs there is inherent uncertainty and the Group has developed systems of internal control to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Any changes to these estimates, some of which involve costs which will be settled only gradually over a number of years and the application of discounting, may impact the carrying values of investment properties and or inventories and or the quantum of liabilities recognised.
Complex transactions Certain property transactions entered into by the Group involve an element of complexity and the need to exercise judgement to determine the most appropriate accounting policy.
Such transactions include the accounting for the acquisition of land at New Covent Garden Market together with the associated obligation to procure the new market for the Covent Garden Market Authority and the accounting for the first two phases of student accommodation at the Bay Campus development for Swansea University.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 116 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued th for the year ended 30 November 2015 Use of estimates and judgements continued Calculation of the net present value of pension scheme liabilities In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, including discount and mortality rates and the longterm rate of return upon scheme assets.
The Group engages a qualified actuary to assist with determining the assumptions to be made and evaluating these liabilities.
Taxation As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions.
The outcome of tax treatments are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the Balance Sheet date.
Managements assessment of the level of provision required is, where applicable, supported by the Groups tax advisors.
If HMRC were to be successful in challenging tax treatments to a greater extent than has been provided at the Balance Sheet date then additional provisions may be required.
Standards and interpretations not yet effective At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not been adopted in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 cycle IAS 16 amended Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 38 amended Intangible Assets IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 cycle IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases The directors are still assessing the impact that the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations will have on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
Adoption of the majority of these standards, amendments and interpretations are expected to have little or no impact on the reported results of the Group, although amended disclosures maybe required.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and is effective for the Groups year ending st 31 March 2019.
The Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the adoption.
IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
IFRS 16 the standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
Prior year restatements VSM Estates Holdings Ltd VSM Estates Holdings Ltd is 50% owned by St Modwen Properties PLC, however under the funding agreement the Group obtains the majority of the benefits of the entity and also retains the majority of the residual risks.
In prior years, this entity was consolidated in line with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
However the conditions for consolidation set out in IFRS10 do not exist and accordingly, the entity is now required to be accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the interest is carried in the Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results after interest and tax.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 117 245 4699 100164 165176 The adoption of IFRS 10 requires the restatement of the comparative financial information for the two years ended th 30 November 2014.
IFRS 11 replaced IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC 13 Jointly Controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
It defines two types of joint arrangement joint operations and joint ventures and specifies the accounting for each arrangement.
Joint operations must be accounted for by including the owners share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line by line basis.
Joint ventures are equity accounted in accordance with IAS 28 revised.
VSM Estates Holdings Ltd is 50% owned by St. Modwen Properties PLC and is accounted for as a joint venture under IFRS 11.
Swansea University During the year, further consideration was given to the revenue streams associated with the first two phases of student accommodation at the Bay Campus development for Swansea University.
Due to the fixed subject only to annual RPI adjustment nature of the Groups annual rental payments to M&G, the Group retains exposure both positive and negative to all variability in net rentals generated from the properties, it has been concluded that the transaction is more appropriately accounted for as a finance lease arrangement, rather than as the sale of 50% of the assets.
Consequently, we have restated our 2014 results to reflect recognition by the Group of the following elements: the whole rather than 50% of the property interest in the student accommodation: to account for the amounts due to M&G as a finance lease liability: to eliminate the construction contract accounting recognised in respect of the proportion of the development work performed on these sites that was funded by M&G: and to revalue the site during the course of construction.
th The impact on previously reported financial information for the year ended 30 November 2014 and the opening Balance Sheet st as at 1 December 2013 is as follows: Income statement Year ended th 30 November 2014 m Decrease in development profits 5.4 Decrease in gains on disposals of investments investment properties 4.0 Decrease in investment property revaluation gains 11.9 Increase decrease in profits of joint ventures and associates post tax 13.5 Decrease in administrative expenses 0.2 Decrease in profit before interest and tax 7.6 Decrease in finance costs 1.7 Decrease in profit before tax 5.9 Decrease in tax charge 3.8 Decrease in profit for the year 2.1 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2.4 Non-controlling interests 4.5 2.1 Year ended th 30 November 2014 m Lease accounting adjustments Swansea 2.4 IFRS 10 adjustments VSM Estates 4.5 2.1 th Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 November 2014 each increased by 1.1p as a result of the prior year restatements above.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 118 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued th for the year ended 30 November 2015 Prior year restatements continued Assets, liabilities and equity th st As at 30 November 2014 As at 1 December 2013 Lease Lease Previously IFRS 10 accounting Total Previously IFRS 10 accounting Total reported adjustments adjustments restated reported adjustments adjustments restated m m m m m m m m Investment properties 903.3 69.2 22.7 856.8 813.3 68.7 744.6 Operating property, plant and equipment 7.0 7.0 6.6 6.6 Investments in joint ventures and associates 88.9 38.3 127.2 95.3 24.8 120.1 Non-current trade and other receivables 14.5 8.5 6.0 17.6 10.6 7.0 Inventories 201.0 201.0 205.9 6.2 199.7 Current trade and other receivables 80.2 16.3 63.9 59.7 7.6 52.1 Derivative financial instruments 1.9 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 6.5 3.3 3.2 7.4 4.2 3.2 Current trade and other payables 163.7 18.2 3.1 148.6 157.4 14.9 2.1 144.6 Derivative financial instruments 8.7 8.7 12.8 12.8 Current borrowings and finance lease obligations 0.1 0.1 62.5 62.5 Tax payables 9.3 2.6 0.6 7.3 3.4 0.2 3.6 Non-current trade and other payables 28.5 21.1 3.9 3.5 46.2 37.1 9.1 Non-current borrowings and finance lease obligations 340.6 22.5 363.1 285.6 10.0 275.6 Deferred tax 16.0 4.3 11.7 10.9 2.4 8.5 Total effect on net assets 736.5 12.8 0.3 724.0 627.0 8.3 2.1 616.6 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 717.8 0.3 718.1 614.2 2.1 612.1 Non-controlling interests 18.7 12.8 5.9 12.8 8.3 4.5 Total effect on equity 736.5 12.8 0.3 724.0 627.0 8.3 2.1 616.6 th th The impact on cash flows for the two years ended 30 November 2013 and 30 November 2014 from these adjustments is to change the movement on the cash and cash equivalents for those years as follows.
Previously IFRS 10 Total reported adjustments restated m m m th 30 November 2013 1.5 4.2 5.7 th 30 November 2014 0.9 0.9 The impact on other, previously reported non-statutory financial information is shown in note 2.
