SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Our Governance.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Financial Financial Statements.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, have prepared the Group and parent Financial Statements in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the pages 51 to 52, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in Statements, the directors are required to: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Group: and consistently: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and accounting estimates that are and performance of the business and the position of the reasonable and prudent: Group, together with a description of the principal risks and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and uncertainties that it faces.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, The directors also confirm that: subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information and of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant continue in business.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The directors responsibilities statement was approved by a duly transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 8 July 2015 the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable and signed on its behalf by Nick Wharton, Chief Financial Officer them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors and Euan Sutherland, Chief Executive Officer.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 Nick Wharton Euan Sutherland and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding 8 July 2015 the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
co. uk 87 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements.
