Strategic report Report of the Directors Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Report of the Directors comprises pages 67 to 69 and the following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated by reference: Location in Item Annual Report Directors responsibility statements Page 70 Financial instruments and financial risk management Financial Statements note 21 Present membership of the Board Page 42 to 43 Corporate Governance Report Pages 44 to 48 Strategic Report including principal activities and principal risks and uncertainties and Viability Statement Pages 4 to 41 Directors Remuneration Report Pages 53 to 66 Share capital Financial Statements note 26 Resources and Relationships Report Pages 20 to 27 Results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 60.4m.
The interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share was paid on 5November 2015.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 5.4 pence per share payable on 4 July 2016 to those shareholders registered at the close of business on 3 June 2016.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative will continue to be offered until further notice.
Directors All the Directors will retire and will be seeking election or re-election as appropriate at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors seeking election or re-election has a service contract other than Mr MacLean and Mr Bennett who each have a service contract which contains a twelve month notice period.
Director indemnity provisions Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which provides that they shall be indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability for which they are indemnified.
The Company has purchased and maintains insurance against directors and officers liabilities in relation to the Company.
Share capital and control During 2015 no shares were issued or repurchased.
A total of 141,795 shares were purchased on the open market on behalf of the shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or can be downloaded from the Companys website.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching tothe Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office oremployment resulting from a takeover.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
