Statement of Directors responsibilities Financial statements, including adoption of going concern basis The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law andregulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101: Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable andprudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained inthe financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on thegoing concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accountingpolicies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and : provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Other matters The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of ourknowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true andfair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken asawhole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and theposition of the Company and theundertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties thatthey face.
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code: The Annual Report and financial statements, taken asawhole, providesthe information necessary to assess the Groups performance, business model andstrategy and is fair, balancedand understandable.
By order of the Board C G MacLean S G Bennett Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 70 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Independent auditors report Governance to the members of Synthomer plc Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Synthomer plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Analysis of Net Borrowings as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Context Our 2015 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that the operations of Synthomer plc were largely unchanged from the prior year.
In addition we had regard to the continued tough trading environment in Central Europe with stronger market conditions in Malaysia.
In light of this our overall audit approach was largely unchanged, with the exception of the removal of the area of focus in relation to impairment of goodwill and intangibles, owing to a reduced level of risk as a result of the upturn in performance in the Asia and Rest of the World segment.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 4.3 million which represents 4.5% of underlying profit before tax.
Audit scope Our Group audit focused on five key reporting units which were all subject to audits of their complete financial information.
The reporting units where we performed audit procedures accounted for 86% of the Groups revenue, 77% of the Groups operating profit and 79% of Groups underlying operating profit.
Areas of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Defined benefit pension accounting The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension accounting We obtained external actuarial reports of the UK and German A set out in note 24 on page 108 the Group has significant schemes dated January 2016 which set out the detailed defined benefit pension schemes.
These primarily represent calculations and assumptions underpinning the year end pension the Yule Catto Group retirement benefits scheme in the UK scheme valuation.
We read these reports and were satisfied that and an unfunded scheme in Germany, which account for the scope of their work was such that we could use this work to 136.1 million of the net pension deficit of 139.2 million provide evidence for the purpose of our audit.
recorded on the Group balance sheet at the year end.
We assessed the competency and objectivity of the external We focused on the pension liabilities in particular, as the actuaries commissioned by the Group to perform the year end amounts reflected in the financial statements for defined calculations by considering their technical expertise and benefits schemes are sensitive to relatively small changes in independence from the Group.
We identified no concerns over afew key assumptions such as the inflation rate, mortality their competency or objectivity.
tables and most notably, the discount rate applied We used our own specialist actuarial knowledge to evaluate all The Group uses third party actuaries to calculate the amounts the key assumptions used in each of the two schemes by to reflect in the financial statements in respect of these comparing these assumptions to our expectations for similar schemes and it is accordingly important for us to assess the schemes as at the year end.
We found managements work they perform and their competency to undertake the assumptions to be consistent with our expectations and within work in order to conclude on the results of their work.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions We used our specialised tax knowledge to assess the level of The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to provisions held against various tax exposures and to consider arange of tax laws in a number of different tax jurisdictions.
the appropriateness of any provisions.
In our assessment we had Indetermining the amount to record at the year-end for tax regard to the nature of the individual exposures, including their liabilities there is an element of judgement as to what amounts origin, and any developments in the year to assess the rationale will ultimately be payable for assessed tax exposures.
for their continued validity at the current year end.
As set out in note 8 at 31 December 2015, the Group has As part of this work we inspected correspondence with tax recorded current tax liabilities totalling 30.6 million.
A authorities and the Groups tax advisors.
We challenged the significant element of this tax liability relates to uncertain judgements made by assessing individual provisions against our taxpositions.
expectations of potential exposures, having regard to the facts of each case and, where deemed necessary, we involved PwC We focused on this area due to the size of the amounts component auditors in the relevant overseas territory.
involved and level of judgement needed to determine the estimated provisions.
No significant issues arose from this work to suggest that the judgements made and amounts recorded were inappropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As set out on page 3 the Group reports its results as two businesses: Europe and North America and Asia and the Rest of the World.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, being holding companies, intermediate holding companies and nineteen operating companies, across thirteen countries.
Three countries the UK, Germany and Malaysia account for the majority for the Groups results.
We accordingly focused our work on the five key reporting units in these countries which were subject to audits of their complete financial information.
These components accounted for 86% of the Groups revenue, 77% of the Groups operating profit and 79% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
In addition to the work at the five key reporting units we performed local statutory audit work in relation to the year ended 31 December 2015 at a number of other operating companies accounting for a further 13% of the Groups underlying profit with these teams reporting to the Group team any issues of note from their work which was substantially completed as at the date of this opinion.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group team also attended the closing audit meeting in the largest of the overseas territories.
72 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4.3 million 2014: 3.8 million.
How we determined it 4.5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We have used underlying profit, being profit before tax adjusted for special items, because it is the applied principal metric against which the Groups financial performance is measured in the Chairmans and CEOs statements within the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 2014: 200,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As partof our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a goingconcern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or toreport.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge oftheGroup acquired inthe course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 70, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole toreport.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 49, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters toreport.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 73 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 29 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the add or to draw attention to.
group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 69 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they add or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
74 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with theaudited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 1 March 2016 The maintenance and integrity of the Synthomer plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Equity NonEquity Nonholders of controlling holders of controlling the parent interests Total the parent interests Total m m m m m m Profit for the year 60.4 2.7 63.1 45.3 1.0 46.3 Actuarial gains and losses 1.6 1.6 47.8 47.8 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income see note 8 0.7 0.7 5.9 5.9 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 0.9 0.9 41.9 41.9 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 35.7 1.4 37.1 15.3 15.3 Exchange differences recycled on deemed disposal of joint venture 1.0 1.0 Gains on a hedge of a net investment taken to equity 10.6 10.6 11.1 11.1 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 25.1 1.4 26.5 3.2 3.2 Other comprehensive expense for the year 24.2 1.4 25.6 45.1 45.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 36.2 1.3 37.5 0.2 1.0 1.2 76 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Consolidated statement of changes in equity Governance for the year ended 31 December 2015 Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Hedging Capital and NonShare Share redemption translation Retained controlling Total Capital premium reserve reserve earnings Total interests Equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 34.0 230.5 0.9 23.2 24.1 266.3 10.8 277.1 Profit for the year 60.4 60.4 2.7 63.1 Actuarial gains and losses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Exchanges differences on translation of foreign operations 35.7 35.7 1.4 37.1 Gains on a hedge of a net investment taken to equity 10.6 10.6 10.6 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income see note 8 0.7 0.7 0.7 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 25.1 61.3 36.2 1.3 37.5 Dividends paid to shareholders 53.7 53.7 53.7 Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 3.0 3.0 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 34.0 230.5 0.9 48.3 32.3 249.4 9.1 258.5 At 1 January 2014 34.0 230.5 0.9 20.0 45.1 290.5 12.0 302.5 Profit for the year 45.3 45.3 1.0 46.3 Actuarial gains and losses 47.8 47.8 47.8 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 15.3 15.3 15.3 Exchange differences recycled on disposal of non-controlling interest 1.0 1.0 1.0 Gains on a hedge of a net investment taken to equity 11.1 11.1 11.1 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income see note 8 5.9 5.9 5.9 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 3.2 3.4 0.2 1.0 1.2 Dividends paid to shareholders 22.4 22.4 22.4 Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 2.2 2.2 Share-based payments 2.0 2.0 2.0 At 31 December 2014 34.0 230.5 0.9 23.2 24.1 266.3 10.8 277.1 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 77 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Non-current assets Goodwill 13 222.4 232.8 Acquired intangible assets 14 50.9 80.7 Other intangible assets 15 0.3 0.5 Property, plant and equipment 16 186.4 205.4 Deferred tax assets 9 15.4 14.4 Investment in joint ventures 17 8.0 7.5 Total non-current assets 483.4 541.3 Current assets Inventories 18 63.6 75.4 Trade and other receivables 19 122.9 137.8 Cash and cash equivalents 20 19.9 24.9 Derivatives at fair value 21 2.9 2.3 Total current assets 209.3 240.4 Assets classified as held for sale 22 1.0 1.1 Current liabilities Borrowings 20 26.3 1.9 Trade and other payables 23 124.7 141.3 Current tax liability 8 30.6 32.7 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 25 3.2 1.2 Total current liabilities 184.8 177.1 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 20 73.7 137.1 Deferred tax liability 9 30.0 35.5 Post retirement benefit obligations 24 139.2 150.7 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 25 7.5 5.3 Total non-current liabilities 250.4 328.6 Net assets 258.5 277.1 Equity Called up share capital 26 34.0 34.0 Share premium 230.5 230.5 Capital redemption reserve 0.9 0.9 Hedging and translation reserve 48.3 23.2 Retained earnings 32.3 24.1 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 249.4 266.3 Non-controlling interests 9.1 10.8 Total equity 258.5 277.1 The financial statements on pages 76 to 115 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 1 March 2016.
They are signed on its behalf by: C G MacLean S G Bennett Director Director Analysis of net borrowings 2015 2014 Note m m Cash and cash equivalents 20 19.9 24.9 Current borrowings 20 26.3 1.9 Non-current borrowings 20 73.7 137.1 Net borrowings 80.1 114.1 Special item: deduct fair value adjustment 20 2.7 2.0 Net borrowings underlying performance 77.4 112.1 78 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Consolidated cash flow statement Governance for the year ended 31 December 2015 Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 2015 2014 Note m m m m Operating Cash generated from operations 27 115.6 89.1 Interest received 0.5 0.8 Interest paid 3.9 7.6 Net interest paid 3.4 6.8 UK corporation tax paid Overseas corporate tax paid 15.4 18.1 Total tax paid 15.4 18.1 Net cash inflow from operating activities 96.8 64.2 Investing Dividends received from joint ventures 17 3.6 4.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 22.8 22.0 Sale of property, plant and equipment 6.8 0.5 Net capital expenditure 16.0 21.5 Purchase of businesses 3.9 Proceeds from financial asset 6.1 Net cash outflow from investing activities 12.4 14.6 Financing Ordinary dividends paid 10 53.7 22.4 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3.0 2.2 Settlement of equity-settled share based payments 2.6 Repayment of borrowings 28 48.5 59.9 Net cash outflow from financing activities 105.2 87.1 Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts during the year 20.8 37.5 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 January2015 28 24.9 59.0 Cash outflows Cash and cash equivalents 28 15.2 37.5 Bank overdrafts 28 5.6 20.8 37.5 Exchange and other movements 28 4.4 3.4 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December 2015 28 8.5 24.9 Reconciliation of net cash flow from operating activities to movement in net borrowings 2015 2014 Note m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 96.8 64.2 Add back: dividends received from joint ventures 17 3.6 4.7 Less: net capital expenditure 16.0 21.5 Less: Purchase of businesses 8.6 84.4 38.8 Ordinary dividends paid 10 53.7 22.4 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3.0 2.2 Settlement of equitysettled share based payments 2.6 Exchange movements 28 7.0 9.9 Movement in net borrowings underlying performance 28 34.7 21.5 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2015 1 General information Synthomer plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on page 132.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group No new standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1January 2016, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for the following: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is a converged standard from the IASB and FASB on revenue recognition.
The standard will improve the financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the top line in financial statements globally.
This new standard is not expected to impact on the accounting of revenue in the Group, however increased disclosure requirements are expected.
It is effective for accounting periods starting 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments, this standard replaces the guidance in IAS 39.
It includes requirements on the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities: it also includes an expected credit losses model that replaces the current incurred loss impairment model.
This new standard is not expected to impact on the accounting, however an increase in disclosure is expected.
IFRS 16 Leases, this standard replaces IAS 17.
It removes the distinction between finance leases and operating leases and requires all leases to be capitalised by recognising the present value of the lease payments.
This new standard is expected tohavean impact on both the Groups Income Statement and Balance Sheet.
It is effective for accounting periods starting 1January2019.
2 Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by theEuropean Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
As discussed in the Report of the Directors on page 69, the financial statements have been prepared onagoing concern basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to thefinancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using equity accounting.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination page 81 andthe non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of combination.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
80 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually at the cash generating unit level.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Should the fair value of the identifiable assets exceed the cost of acquisition, a Bargain purchase, the excess is credited to the income statement immediately on acquisition.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstance that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirers previously held investment is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date: any gains or losses from such re-measurement are recognised in the income statement.
Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired through acquisition are measured at their fair value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Customer relationships between 5 and 8 years Technology 10 years Where necessary the fair value at acquisition and estimated useful lives for these intangible assets are based on independent valuation reports.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Software development resulting in development of a long-term intangible asset are measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of between 3-5 years.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions in IAS 38 are met: an asset is created that can be separately identified such as software and new processes : it is technically feasible to complete the asset: management intends to complete the development: there is an ability to use or sell the asset once development has been completed: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development are available: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
No research or development costs met the criteria required for capitalisation under IAS 38 during the year.
Where no internallygenerated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost original purchase price and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Except for freehold land, which is not depreciated, the cost of property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings the lesser of 50 years and the period of the lease Plant and equipment between 3 and 10 years Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its plant, property and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Operating leases Operating lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis to the income statement over the term of the relevant lease.
Any benefits received as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
82 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
All trade receivables that are factored by third parties are done so on a non-recourse basis.
At the point of factoring, the Group forfeits the right to future cash flows from these receivables and those amounts are derecognised.
The cost of factoring receivables is recognised as a finance cost in the period in which the receivable is factored.
Amortised costs Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of financial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset isestimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement over the term of such instruments at an effective interest rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs that are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets in accordance with IAS 23.
Foreign currencies In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives, as set out in note 21.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency options.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the other gains and losses line of the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, restricted cash balances which become fully liquid within three months or less and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
84 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Retirement benefit costs The costs of defined benefit contributions to the Groups pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are charged to the consolidated income statement on a systematic basis over the expected period of benefits from employees service.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Actuarial gains on the defined benefit schemes are recognised in full in each period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of the consolidated income statement and are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee-administered funds.
For the German schemes, the assets are included within the assets of the respective companies, as permitted under local laws.
The assets of the other overseas schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, where delivery is defined in accordance with Incoterms 2010.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Group will on occasion, at its own discretion, settlethesharebased payments in cash rather than equity.
Definitions Total sales Total sales represents the total of revenue from the Company, its subsidiaries, and its share of the revenue of joint ventures.
Operating profit Operating profit represents profit from continuing activities before financing costs and taxation.
EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and special items as defined below.
Special items The following are disclosed separately in order to provide a clearer indication of the Groups underlying performance: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets: Impairment of non-current assets: Costs of business combinations: Re-structuring and site closure costs: Fair value adjustment mark to market adjustments in respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used for hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied: Other non-recurring and non-operating items: and Tax impact of the above items.
Underlying performance Underlying performance represents the performance of the Group under IFRS, excluding special items.
Net borrowings Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together with short and long term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they qualify for hedge accounting, non-recourse factoring arrangements.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below, that the Group has made in the process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The Group activities give rise to significant potential deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of the UK pension liability, tax losses and accelerated capital allowances.
Determination of whether these assets should be recognised requires a high degree ofmanagement judgement and is dependent on managements ability to project future earnings from activities that may apply loss positions carried forward against future income taxes.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the result of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis taking the current and expected future market conditions into consideration.
86 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Impairment reversal of impairment The Group has significant investments in property, plant and equipment, acquired intangibles and goodwill.
Changes in the circumstances or expectations of future performance of an individual asset may be an indicator that the asset is impaired requiring the book value to be written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairments, excluding goodwill, are reversed if the conditions for impairment are no longer present.
Evaluating whether an asset is impaired or if an impairment should be reversed requires a high degree of judgement and may depend to a large extent on the selection of key assumptions about the future.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The growth rates used within the forecast future cash flows are developed with reference to external sources but are subject to estimation uncertainty.
Post retirement benefit obligations Included in the actuaries calculation of the post retirement benefit obligations are a number of assumptions.
Any changes in these assumption will impact the carrying value of the obligations.
These are shown in detail in note 24.
Current tax liability and deferred tax The Group annually incurs significant amounts of income taxes payable to various jurisdictions around the world, and it also recognises significant changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, all of which are based on managements interpretations of applicable laws, regulations and relevant court decisions.
The quality of these estimates is highly dependent upon managements ability to properly apply what can be very complex sets of rules and to recognise changes in applicable rules.
3 Special items The special items are made up as follows: 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Acquisition of controlling interest in Synthomer Finland Oy Excess of net assets acquired over consideration paid Bargain Purchase 1.2 Recycling of foreign exchange on deemed disposal of non-controlling interest 1.0 Acquisition costs 0.1 0.1 Restructuring and site closure 5.4 4.5 Sale of Malaysian land see note 22 6.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles see note 14 Subsidiaries 23.7 25.8 Share of Joint Ventures 1.2 Operating loss 22.6 31.4 Finance costs Fair value adjustment see note 7 0.2 0.8 Loss before taxation from continuing operations 22.8 32.2 Taxation see note 8 11.6 10.9 Loss for the year from continuing operations 11.2 21.3 The restructuring and site closure costs charged to the consolidated income statement above are in respect of the European cost reduction programmes.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis Substantially all revenues earned by the Group are from the sale of polymer products derived from petrochemical monomers.
No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
No information is provided at the divisional level to theExecutive Committee, the chief operating decision maker, concerning interest revenues, interest expense, depreciation or amortisation, income taxes or other material non-cash items.
Total sales Operating profit Underlying Special Underlying Special performance items IFRS performance items IFRS 2015 m m m m m m Analysis by activity Continuing activity Europe & North America Subsidiaries 582.1 582.1 73.3 23.4 49.9 Share of joint ventures 582.1 582.1 73.3 23.4 49.9 Asia & Rest of World Subsidiaries 288.0 288.0 36.7 1.0 37.7 Share of joint ventures 23.9 23.9 3.8 3.8 311.9 311.9 40.5 1.0 41.5 Total sales 894.0 894.0 Reported segment operating profit 113.8 22.4 91.4 Unallocated corporate expenses 10.9 0.2 11.1 Operating profit loss 102.9 22.6 80.3 Total share of joint ventures Europe & North America Asia & Rest of World 23.9 23.9 3.8 3.8 23.9 23.9 3.8 3.8 Total sales Operating profit Underlying Special Underlying Special performance items IFRS performance items IFRS 2014 m m m m m m Analysis by activity Continuing activity Europe & North America Subsidiaries 661.4 661.4 84.0 24.5 59.5 Share of joint ventures 25.8 25.8 1.7 1.2 0.5 687.2 687.2 85.7 25.7 60.0 Asia & Rest of World Subsidiaries 275.0 275.0 14.2 5.7 8.5 Share of joint ventures 28.3 28.3 3.6 3.6 303.3 303.3 17.8 5.7 12.1 Total sales 990.5 990.5 Reported segment operating profit 103.5 31.4 72.1 Unallocated corporate expenses 7.0 7.0 Operating profit 96.5 31.4 65.1 Total share of joint ventures Europe & North America 25.8 25.8 1.7 1.2 0.5 Asia & Rest of World 28.3 28.3 3.6 3.6 54.1 54.1 5.3 1.2 4.1 88 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Europe and Asia and Unallocated North Rest of corporate America World expenses Total 2015 m m m m Restructuring & site closure cash costs 4.8 0.4 0.2 5.4 Sale of Malaysian land 6.5 6.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 18.6 5.1 23.7 23.4 1.0 0.2 22.6 Europe and Asia and Unallocated North Rest of corporate America World expenses Total 2014 m m m m Acquisition of controlling interest in Synthomer Finland Oy 0.1 0.1 Restructuring & site closure cash costs 4.5 4.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 20.1 5.7 25.8 Share of Joint Ventures special items 1.2 1.2 25.7 5.7 31.4 Depreciation Total Total Capital and assets liabilities expenditure amortisation 2015 m m m m Analysis by activity Continuing activity Subsidiaries Europe & North America 209.6 74.0 13.5 12.2 Asia & Rest of World 159.4 46.6 7.6 9.8 369.0 120.6 21.1 22.0 Unallocated assets and liabilities 8.2 14.7 1.1 0.1 377.2 135.3 22.2 22.1 Share of joint ventures see note 17 11.6 3.6 Goodwill see note 13 222.4 Acquired intangibles and related deferred tax 50.9 15.4 Current and deferred taxation 15.4 45.4 Post retirement benefit obligations 139.2 Net borrowings see note 20 80.1 677.5 419.0 Net assets 258.5 Depreciation Total Total Capital and assets liabilities expenditure amortisation 2014 m m m m Analysis by activity Continuing activity Subsidiaries Europe & North America 231.6 85.4 12.7 11.8 Asia & Rest of World 184.3 51.2 9.3 9.7 415.9 136.6 22.0 21.5 Unallocated assets and liabilities 6.6 11.2 422.5 147.8 22.0 21.5 Share of joint ventures see note 17 13.0 5.5 Goodwill see note 13 232.8 Acquired intangibles and related deferred tax 80.7 24.1 Current and deferred taxation 29.7 Post retirement benefit obligations 150.7 Net borrowings see note 20 114.1 749.0 471.9 Net assets 277.1 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis continued Analysis of total sales by destination 2015 2014 m m Western Europe 431.4 527.4 Eastern Europe 49.0 56.0 North America 37.2 39.0 Asia 297.6 273.9 Africa and Middle East 75.9 91.9 Rest of World 2.9 2.3 894.0 990.5 Of the total sales to Western Europe, 59.3 million 2014: 76.9 million were made to the UK and 134.2 million 2014:169.2million were made to Germany.
Of the total sales to Asia, 162.5 million 2014: 144.1 million were made to Malaysia.
Inter-segmental sales In addition to the amounts included above, inter-segmental sales of 21.5 million 2014: 11.9 million were made as set out below.
These sales were eliminated on consolidation.
Europe and Asia and North Rest of America World Total 2015 m m m Europe & North America 20.3 20.3 Asia & Rest of World 1.2 1.2 Total 1.2 20.3 21.5 Europe and Asia and North Rest of America World Total 2014 m m m Europe & North America 9.4 9.4 Asia & Rest of World 2.5 2.5 Total 2.5 9.4 11.9 90 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 5 Operating profit 2015 2014 m m Group revenue 870.1 936.4 Share of joint ventures revenue 23.9 54.1 Total sales 894.0 990.5 Group revenue 870.1 936.4 Cost of sales 676.8 772.4 Gross profit 193.3 164.0 Sales and marketing costs 23.5 21.9 Administrative expenses 48.6 29.4 Share of joint ventures 3.8 5.3 EBITDA 125.0 118.0 Depreciation and amortisation 22.1 21.5 Operating profit underlying performance 102.9 96.5 Special items 22.6 31.4 Operating profit IFRS 80.3 65.1 2015 2014 Operating profit is stated after charging the following: m m Amortisation: acquired intangibles see note 14 23.7 25.8 Amortisation: other intangibles see note 15 0.3 0.3 Depreciation see note 16 21.8 21.2 Hire of plant and equipment 2.2 3.0 Other lease rentals 3.3 3.4 Research and development expenditure 12.0 12.8 6 Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable to the Company's auditor for: audit of the Companys annual accounts and the consolidated annual accounts 137 87 Fees payable to the Company's auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the Companys subsidiaries annual accounts 407 386 Total audit fees 544 473 Audit related assurance services 10 1 Tax compliance services 26 79 Other taxation advisory services 66 20 Other services 209 57 Total non-audit fees 311 157 Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditor for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 51.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Finance costs 2015 2014 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.2 5.1 Interest payable on other loans 0.6 1.6 3.8 6.7 Less: interest receivable 0.5 0.8 3.3 5.9 IAS 19 interest charge 4.3 4.6 Net interest payable 7.6 10.5 Fair value adjustment 0.2 0.8 Total finance costs 7.8 11.3 The fair value adjustment is the mark-to-market adjustment in respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used for hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied.
8 Taxation 2015 2014 m m Current tax UK corporation tax Overseas taxation 18.5 16.2 18.5 16.2 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.5 2.2 21.0 18.4 Special items Current tax: Historic issues 3.1 Restructuring and site closure costs 1.3 3.2 Deferred tax: Amortisation of acquired intangibles 7.2 7.7 11.6 10.9 Total tax on profit before taxation 9.4 7.5 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions Reconciliation of tax expense to profit before taxation The differences between the total tax expense shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows.
2015 2014 m m Profit before taxation continuing operations 72.5 53.8 Tax on profit before taxation continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 14.7 11.5 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.7 2.0 Tax incentives and items not subject to tax 9.3 5.0 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 2.0 1.4 Other deferred tax asset not recognised less amounts now recognised 1.4 2.5 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods 0.1 0.2 Effect of change of rate on deferred tax 0.6 0.3 Tax charge for year 9.4 7.5 92 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Tax charges to other comprehensive income 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax credit in respect of actuarial losses 0.7 5.9 Current tax liabilities 2015 2014 m m Current tax liabilities 30.6 32.7 9 Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown below.
Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax Acquired depreciation intangibles Other Total 2015 m m m m At 1 January 11.4 24.1 35.5 Charged credited to income statement 3.5 7.2 0.8 2.9 Exchange adjustment 1.1 1.5 2.6 At 31 December 13.8 15.4 0.8 30.0 Deferred tax assets Pension Other Total 2015 m m m At 1 January 14.4 14.4 Credited to income statement 0.5 1.3 1.8 Charged to statement of comprehensive income 0.7 0.7 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 14.1 1.3 15.4 Deferred tax asset not recognised Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
The amounts of deferred tax not recognised at the balance sheet dates are as follows: 2015 2014 m m UK pension liability 10.1 12.4 Tax losses 8.6 7.9 Accelerated capital allowances 3.5 2.0 Other timing differences 0.1 0.6 22.3 21.7 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Ordinary dividends 2015 2014 pence pence 2015 2014 per share per share m m Interim dividend 3.2 3.0 10.9 10.2 Proposed final dividend 5.4 4.8 18.4 16.3 8.6 7.8 29.3 26.5 Special dividend 7.8 26.5 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Dividends paid 2015 2014 m m Interim dividend 10.9 10.2 Prior year final dividend 16.3 12.2 Prior year special dividend 26.5 53.7 22.4 11 Earnings per share Number of shares 2015 2014 Number Number 000 000 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 339,798 339,764 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options 2,615 2,724 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 342,413 342,488 Earnings per share 2015 2014 Underlying Special performance items IFRS Underlying Special m m m performance items IFRS From Continuing operations Earnings Profit attributable to equity holdersoftheparent m 73.1 12.7 60.4 66.2 20.9 45.3 Basic earnings per share p 21.5 3.7 17.8 19.5 6.2 13.3 Diluted earnings per share p 21.3 3.7 17.6 19.3 6.1 13.2 12 Employees 2015 2014 Number Number The average monthly number of employees during the year by segment was: Europe & North America 1,227 1,238 Asia & Rest of World 749 836 Holding companies 19 17 1,995 2,091 Share of joint ventures 43 47 2,038 2,138 The share of joint ventures is calculated by applying the Groups effective interest to the average number of employees for each joint venture.
94 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 2015 2014 m m The aggregate remuneration of all Group employees comprised: Wages and salaries 76.2 68.0 Social security costs 9.4 9.3 Pension costs 10.2 9.8 Share based payments 0.6 0.3 96.4 87.4 Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 66.
13 Goodwill 2015 2014 m m Cost At 1 January 342.7 351.0 Exchange adjustments 10.4 8.3 At 31 December 332.3 342.7 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January and at 31 December 109.9 109.9 Net book value At 31 December 222.4 232.8 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment at the balance sheet date, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Cash Generating Units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The allocation of the carrying value of goodwill is represented below.
Net book Net book Net book value at value at value at 1 January Exchange 31 December Exchange 31 December 2014 adjustments 2014 adjustments 2015 m m m m m Europe & North America 211.4 8.3 203.1 6.3 196.8 Asia & Rest of World 29.7 29.7 4.1 25.6 Total 241.1 8.3 232.8 10.4 222.4 The recoverable amounts for CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based upon discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions for those discounted cash flow calculations are the discount rate, profitability and growth rate.
The discount rate isbased on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, for the risk premium attributable to the particular CGUs activities and geography of operation.
Profitability and growth rates are based on past experience combined withmanagements expectations for future business performance, which is informed by a number of factors including economic growth, internal plans and competitor and customer activity.
Discount rates of 11% 2014: 11% and 12% 2014: 12% have been used in the above calculations for Europe & North America and Asia & Rest of World respectively.
The profit used in the cash flows for the first year is derived from management forecasts: for years 2 to 10 a growth rate is applied.
The profit for year 10 is then assumed to apply without further growth into perpetuity.
Growth rates of 2% 2014: 2% and 5% 2014: 5% have been used for Europe & North America and Asia & Rest of World respectively, representing managements bestestimate of each CGUs circumstances, and these do not exceed the long-term growth rates for the markets concerned.
There is no reasonably possible change in key assumptions that would lead to an impairment.
Of the net book value of goodwill at 31 December 2015, 70.5 million 2014: 70.5 million is located in the UK.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Acquired intangible assets Customer relationships Technology Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 169.2 2.8 172.0 Exchange adjustments 12.5 0.2 12.7 At 31 December 2015 156.7 2.6 159.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 90.2 1.1 91.3 Exchange adjustments 6.5 0.1 6.6 Amortisation charge for the year 23.5 0.2 23.7 At 31 December 2015 107.2 1.2 108.4 Net book value At 31 December 2015 49.5 1.4 50.9 Customer relationships Technology Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 176.3 3.0 179.3 Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 2.1 2.1 Exchange adjustments 9.2 0.2 9.4 At 31 December 2014 169.2 2.8 172.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2014 69.0 0.8 69.8 Exchange adjustments 4.3 4.3 Amortisation charge for the year 25.5 0.3 25.8 At 31 December 2014 90.2 1.1 91.3 Net book value At 31 December 2014 79.0 1.7 80.7 Analysis of net book value by segment: 2015 2014 m m Europe & North America 39.3 61.7 Asia & Rest of World 11.6 19.0 50.9 80.7 96 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 15 Other intangible assets Software m Cost At 1 January 2015 5.0 Exchange adjustments 0.4 Additions 0.1 Disposals 2.8 At 31 December 2015 1.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 4.5 Exchange adjustments 0.4 Amortisation charge for the year 0.3 Disposals 2.8 At 31 December 2015 1.6 Net book value At 31 December 2015 0.3 Software m Cost At 1 January 2014 6.0 Exchange adjustments 0.2 Additions 0.4 Disposals 1.2 At 31 December 2014 5.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2014 5.5 Exchange adjustments 0.1 Amortisation charge for the year 0.3 Disposals 1.2 At 31 December 2014 4.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 0.5 Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
No development expenditure met the requirements to be recognised as an internally generated intangible asset, therefore all development costs in the period were expensed.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Leaseholds Plant and Freeholds Long Short equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 39.5 6.9 19.7 402.3 468.4 Exchange adjustments 2.1 0.1 2.7 27.9 32.8 Additions 0.2 1.0 20.9 22.1 Disposals 0.3 1.4 1.7 At 31 December 2015 37.3 6.8 18.0 393.9 456.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 18.8 3.0 2.7 238.5 263.0 Exchange adjustments 0.8 0.1 0.4 13.1 14.4 Depreciation charge for the year 1.9 0.2 0.1 19.8 21.8 Assets written down 0.6 0.6 Disposals 1.4 1.4 At 31 December 2015 19.9 3.1 2.2 244.4 269.6 Net book value At 31 December 2015 17.4 3.7 15.8 149.5 186.4 Land and buildings Leaseholds Plant and Freeholds Long Short equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 39.3 5.2 18.9 393.7 457.1 Exchange adjustments 1.5 0.1 8.3 9.9 Additions 1.2 1.6 0.9 17.9 21.6 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1.0 0.1 5.4 6.5 Disposals 0.5 6.4 6.9 At 31 December 2014 39.5 6.9 19.7 402.3 468.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2014 18.1 2.8 2.0 231.1 254.0 Exchange adjustments 0.7 4.6 5.3 Depreciation charge for the year 1.9 0.2 0.7 18.4 21.2 Disposals 0.5 6.4 6.9 At 31 December 2014 18.8 3.0 2.7 238.5 263.0 Net book value At 31 December 2014 20.7 3.9 17.0 163.8 205.4 Freehold land amounting to 3.4 million 2014: 4.0 million has not been depreciated.
Analysis of net book value by location: 2015 2014 m m UK 32.7 29.4 Germany 50.9 54.3 Malaysia 88.1 106.0 Other 14.7 15.7 186.4 205.4 98 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Analysis of net book value by segment: 2015 2014 m m Europe & North America 95.4 96.9 Asia & Rest of the World 91.0 108.5 186.4 205.4 17 Investment in joint ventures Details of the Groups joint ventures are as follows: % of ownership Place of Name of entity incorporation 2015 2014 Principal activity Manufacturer and sale of acrylic Synthomer Middle East Company Saudi Arabia 49% 49% andvinylresin emulsions Distributor of speciality chemicals Arkem Pty Ltd South Africa 50% 50% andallied products Super Sky Ltd United Kingdom 50% 50% Non-trading These joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in these financial statements.
Summarised financial information in respect of the joint ventures is set out below.
This information represents amounts in the joint ventures financial statements adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint venture and not the Groups share of those amounts.
Summarised balance sheet 100% Synthomer Middle East Company Other 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current assets 4.0 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 2.4 2.0 0.2 0.2 Other current assets 14.9 19.1 1.8 1.8 Total current assets 17.3 21.1 2.0 2.0 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables Other current liabilities 7.0 11.2 0.1 0.1 Total current liabilities 7.0 11.2 0.1 0.1 Net assets 14.3 13.3 1.9 1.9 Net assets Group share 7.0 6.5 1.0 1.0 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Investment in joint ventures continued Summarised statement of comprehensive income 100% Synthomer Middle East Company Other 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Revenue 44.9 54.5 3.5 3.0 Operating profit from continuing operations 7.3 7.0 0.4 0.3 Interest Taxation 0.1 Amortisation of intangibles Profit from continuing operations 7.3 7.0 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences on translation 1.0 1.2 0.3 Total comprehensive income 8.3 8.2 0.3 Dividends paid 7.3 6.8 0.4 Movement in retained earnings 1.0 1.4 0.1 Profit for the year Group share 3.6 3.4 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences on translation Group share 0.5 0.6 0.2 Dividends paid Group share 3.6 3.3 0.2 Note Synthomer Finland Oy formerly Eka Synthomer Oy was a 50% joint venture until 22 October 2014.
Whilst it was a joint venture in 2014, the Group share of profit for the year, exchange difference and dividend were 0.5 million, 0.4 million and .
The following table reconciles the summary information above to the carrying amount of the Groups interest in the joint ventures: Investment in joint venture Synthomer Middle East Company Other Total m m m At 1 January 2015 6.5 1.0 7.5 Profit from continuing operations 3.6 0.2 3.8 Exchange differences on translation 0.5 0.2 0.3 Dividend paid 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2015 7.0 1.0 8.0 18 Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 27.2 32.6 Finished goods 36.4 42.8 63.6 75.4 The value of stock written off during the year was 0.2 million 2014: 0.1 million.
The cost of inventory recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 590.2 million 2014: 712.0 million.
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their net realisable value.
The nature of the chemical reaction necessary to produce finished goods from raw materials is such that work in progress is not a material part of the Groups inventory at any given point of time.
100 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 19 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 112.0 125.0 Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.1 Other receivables 10.2 9.7 Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 3.0 122.9 137.8 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Credit risk Amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers.
Before accepting a new customer, the Group uses appropriate procedures to assess the potential customers credit quality in order to set a credit limit.
Ageing of trade receivables 2015 2014 m m Not yet due 95.0 102.3 0 60 days overdue 18.6 23.6 61 120 days overdue 1.0 1.1 Over 120 days due 1.9 2.8 116.5 129.8 Less: provision for impairment 4.5 4.8 112.0 125.0 Provision for impairment of receivables 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 4.8 5.2 Exchange adjustments 0.6 0.2 Credit charge for the year 0.9 Amounts written back off as uncollectible 0.6 0.2 At 31 December 4.5 4.8 The provision is predominantly against overdue trade receivables.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Cash and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Current borrowings Bank loans Bank overdrafts 11.4 Other loans $22.0 million 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016 14.9 Factoring with recourse 1.9 26.3 1.9 Non-current borrowings Bank loans Unsecured 210.0 million multi currency Revolving Credit Facility expiring 30 July 2019 75.0 124.7 Other loans $22.0 million 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016 14.1 75.0 138.8 Less: capitalised costs 1.3 1.7 73.7 137.1 Note In aggregate 14.9 million 2014: 14.1 million, associated with which is the currency impact of derivatives of 2.7 million 2014: 2.0 million, net12.2million 2014: 12.1 million.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents or government bond rates appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had available 135.0 million 2014: 85.3 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities inrespect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The directors calculate the carrying value of the Groups borrowings as follows: Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m 31 December 2015 Bank overdrafts 11.2 0.2 11.4 Factoring with recourse Bank loans 75.0 75.0 Loan notes 14.9 14.9 Capitalised costs 1.3 1.3 84.9 14.9 0.2 100.0 Cash and cash equivalents 19.9 Net borrowings 80.1 Deduct: special item fair value adjustment 2.7 Net borrowings underlying performance 77.4 102 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m 31 December 2014 Bank overdrafts Factoring with recourse 1.9 1.9 Bank loans 124.7 124.7 Loan notes 14.1 14.1 Capitalised costs 1.7 1.7 1.7 14.1 126.6 139.0 Cash and cash equivalents 24.9 Net borrowings 114.1 Deduct: special item fair value adjustment 2.0 Net borrowings underlying performance 112.1 The special item fair value adjustment represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year end rate to the extent that these constituted effective hedges prior to the adoption of IFRS.
Cash and cash equivalents are deposited with financial institutions rated as investment grade.
21 Financial instruments The Group operates procedures designed to reduce or eliminate financial risk and ensure that funds are available for current and future needs.
The policies are approved by the Board and the use of financial instruments is strictly controlled.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the cash and borrowings disclosed in note 20, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
2015 2014 m m Net borrowings Underlying performance 77.4 112.1 EBITDA see note 5 125.0 118.0 Underlying net borrowings: EBITDA 0.6 1.0 2015 2014 Fair value Fair value through through Loans and profit or Loans and profit or receivables loss receivables loss Financial assets m m m m Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 122.2 134.8 Cash and cash equivalents 19.9 24.9 Derivatives at fair value 2.9 2.3 142.1 2.9 159.7 2.3 2015 2014 Derivative Derivative instruments instruments in designated in designated Amortised hedge Amortised hedge cost accounting cost accounting Financial liabilities m m m m Loan notes 14.9 14.1 Bank loans and overdrafts 86.4 124.7 Trade and other payables 124.7 141.3 226.0 280.1 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
Carrying values at Fair values at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Fair value of financial assets Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 122.2 134.8 122.2 134.8 Cash and cash equivalents 19.9 24.9 19.9 24.9 Derivatives at fair value 2.9 2.3 2.9 2.3 145.0 162.0 145.0 162.0 Fair value of financial liabilities Loan notes 14.9 14.1 15.0 14.4 Bank loans and overdrafts 86.4 124.7 86.4 124.7 Trade and other payables 124.7 141.3 124.7 141.3 226.0 280.1 226.1 280.4 Fair values have been obtained from the relevant institutions where appropriate.
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flow at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
The carrying amount of short-term borrowings approximates to book value.
The fair value of the Groups financial instruments are measured using inputs other than quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable, Level 2 as defined by IFRS 13.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are market risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below, together with related disclosure required by IFRS.
Market risk The Groups main exposure to market risk is in the form of interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The policies adopted to address these risks are as follows: Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, loan notes and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest and uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile in order to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Foreign currency risk The Group uses currency borrowings, forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge overseas net assets, which are predominantly denominated in Euros and Malaysian Ringitt.
Profit translation exposures are not hedged.
The Group hedges currency transaction exposures at the point of confirmed order, using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Groups policy is, where practicable, to hedge all exposures on monetary assets and liabilities.
Consequently, there are no material currency exposures to disclose 2014 none.
Impact on income statement Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts amounting to 0.2 million have been debited to the income statement in the year 2014 debit of 0.8 million.
These changes are shown separately as a special item in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting The Group has a number of cross currency swaps that are used to reduce the exposure to interest rate and currency risk.
These swaps are fully effective at eliminating the risks they address.
The Group has reviewed the requirements necessary to permit the application of hedge accounting under IAS 39.
It has concluded that the costs involved in meeting these requirements cannot be justified and therefore IAS 39 hedge accounting will not be applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to which hedge accounting is not applied are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
104 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information In addition, the Group has taken out forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the sterling value of its net investments in certain foreign operations, which have a Malaysian Ringgit functional currency.
These contracts have been accounted for as net investment hedges as permitted by IAS 39.
Interest rate risk profile Financial liabilities After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposure of the Group as at 31 December 2015 was: 2015 2014 Floating rate Fixed rate Total Floating rate Fixed rate Total borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings m m m m m m Sterling 87.3 10.0 97.3 2.3 10.0 12.3 Euro 124.7 124.7 87.3 10.0 97.3 127.0 10.0 137.0 Cash and cash equivalents 19.9 24.9 Net borrowings underlying performance 77.4 112.1 The effective interest rate for the year was 1.9% 2014: 2.5% Sensitivity analysis The following table illustrates the effect on the income statement and items that are recognised directly in equity that would result from reasonably possible movements in UK and US interest rates and in Euro and US dollar to sterling exchange rates, before the effect of tax.
2015 2014 Income statement Equity Income statement Equity Underlying IFRS IFRS Underlying IFRS IFRS m m m m m m Interest rate sensitivity analysis UK interest rate 1.0% 0.9 0.8 0.2 Euro interest rate 1.0% 1.2 1.2 US interest rate 1.0% 0.1 0.2 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Malaysian Ringitt exchange rate 10% 1.6 Euro exchange rate 10% 2.6 2.8 US dollar exchange rate 10% 0.2 0.3 The interest rate sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The foreign currency sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency of the lender or borrower.
Liquidity risk The objective of the Group is to meet financial commitments as and when they fall due.
The Board closely monitors liquidity through monthly management accounts.
At the year end, Synthomer plc had the following principal facilities: A 5 year, 210 million committed revolving credit facility.
Unsecured loan notes totalling approximately 14.9 million raised from the US private placement market in 2004 with a maturity date of September 2016.
Please see note 20 for further details.
