Notes to the Company financial statements 31 December 2015 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of accounting The financial statements of Synthomer plc have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and derivative financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the companys accounting policies.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on industry experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The directors have reviewed the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.
The directors do not believe that there is a significant risk which would lead to material adjustments to the carrying value of any assets and liabilities in the next financial year due to changes on estimates or assumptions.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, inaccordance with FRS 101: IAS 7, Statement of cash flows The requirements in IAS24, Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
IFRS 13, Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inouts used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilites.
Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined.
Going concern The Company meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its cash reserves and borrowings.
After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance the Directors have concluded that the company should be able to operate within the level of its current cash reserves and borrowings and continue in operational existence for theforeseeable future.
The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financialstatements.
Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of suchtransactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within Other operating income.
Property, plant and equipment Properties are shown at professional valuation from 1985.
All other plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset plus the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land and buildings are credited to other comprehensive income and shown as Revaluation reserve in shareholders funds.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are charged in other comprehensive income and debited against Revaluation reserve: all other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of the asset charged to the income statement, and depreciation based on the assets original cost is transferred from Revaluation reserve to Retained earnings.
120 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Except for freehold land, which is not depreciated, the cost or valuation of property, plant and equipment is depreciated onastraight-line basis over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Intercompany Intercompany balances are shown gross unless a right of set off exists.
Balances are valued at fair value at inception and are repayable on demand.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders funds.
In this case, the tax isalso recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders funds, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred taxation Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: or arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Financial instruments All financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at transaction price including transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the income statement, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments are recognised on the Company statement of financial position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are only offset in the balance sheet when, and only when there exists a legally enforceable right toset off the recognised amounts and the Company intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets are derecognised when and only when a the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or are settled, b the Company transfers to another party substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, or c the Company.
despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership, has transferred control of the asset to another party and the other party has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer.
Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
