Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting Procedural notes 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between the votes which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a on 26 April 2016 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she Shareholders then on the Register of Members shall be entitled may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes should direct any communications and enquiries to the registered to entries on the relevant Register of Members after that deadline holder of the shares by whom they were nominated and not to shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to the Company or its registrar.
attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the 2.
As at 8 March 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to appointment of proxies in Notes 3 and 4 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 3,264,323,375 ordinary shares, carrying one only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through as at 8 March 2016 were 3,264,323,375. the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using 3.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST out in Note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able behalf at the meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a CREST service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in shareholder of the Company but must attend the Annual General accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, Meeting to represent you.
A proxy form which may be used to make and must contain the information required for such instruction, as such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this described in the CREST Manual available via www.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should CREST.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Capita appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction Asset Services as soon as possible on 44 0 371 664 0300 calls given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge: transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by from overseas 44 0 20 8639 3399 calls outside the United 11:00 am on 26 April 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Capita be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied Asset Services is open between 9.00 am 5.30 pm, Monday to to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
In the case issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which communicated to the appointee through other means.
the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys Register of Members in respect of the joint holdings the first-named being the 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or most senior.
voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 4.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, proxy must be received by Capita Asset Services at PXS 1, 34 therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or, if you want It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take to use an envelope the address to use is simply FREEPOST or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or CAPITA PXS, or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, www.
com or, if you are a member of CREST, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message the electronic address provided in Note 9, in each case no later is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular than 11:00 am on 26 April 2016.
Please note that all forms of proxy time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, received after this time will be void.
A form of proxy sent electronically their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, at any time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 5.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
or any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in Notes 8 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the and 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
150 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting Explanatory notes to the resolutions the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to Ordinary Business require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting Ordinary Resolutions out any matter relating to: Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors to be in favour.
Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements the Annual General Meeting: or English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the reports of the Directors, namely the Strategic Report, Directors ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and the Auditors Report: before a general meeting of the Company the Annual Report.
Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.18 pence website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
If approved 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 20 May 2016 required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to business on 8 April 2016. the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be Resolution 3: To declare a special dividend dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement The Company has announced its intention to return cash to its that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the shareholders, through the payment of annual special dividends, always Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
subject to market and performance uctuations.
Due to the size of these dividends, the Company believes it is appropriate to seek prior 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions and participate in the meeting.
The Company must cause to be shareholder approval for its payment, as it did at last years AGM.
answered any such question relating to the business being dealt Further details on the rationale for paying special dividends and the link with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so to the Companys current strategy, can be found on page 12. would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information: ii the answer has already The aggregate cost of the special dividend for 2016 will be around been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: 300 million and will be met from profits and surplus cash generated or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the during 2016.
If approved, it will be paid on 15 July 2016 to shareholders good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
on the register at the close of business on 3 June 2016.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Dividend Re-Investment Plan Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found Subject to shareholders approving either or both of the dividends at www.
co. uk corporate as set out in Resolutions 2 and 3 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 28 April 2016, the Company will be offering a Dividend 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting will Re-Investment Plan DRIP on each one.
The DRIP is provided and be conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
administered by the DRIP plan administrator, Capita IRG Trustees The Board believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct voting intentions because it gives as many shareholders as possible Authority FCA.
The DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to elect the opportunity to have their votes counted whether their votes are to invest cash dividends received on their ordinary shares, in purchasing tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at, the Annual General further ordinary shares of the Company.
These shares would be bought Meeting.
The results of the poll will be announced via a Regulatory in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
Information Service and made available at www.
co. uk corporate as soon as practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend for 2015 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future dividends, including special dividends, until such time as you withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any dividend mandates that are in place, should you either wish to participate in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless or until revoked.
151 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued CREST Kate Barker DBE offers herself for re-election.
For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since April 2011. elections continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent in character election must be made, via CREST, for each dividend.
and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that her Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of maintenance which she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears dividends i. e. in this case, the 2015 final dividend and any special on page 45 and there is additional information on page 53. dividends, are available at www.
com or on request from the Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Baroness Ford of Cunninghame offers herself for re-election.
Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: shares@capita.
co. uk or call Margaret has been an Independent Non Executive Director since 44 0 371 664 0381.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic April 2013.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of be charged at the applicable international rate.
The Registar is open the Board and of the Remuneration Committee which she Chairs between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public and Nomination Committee.
The Board has also reviewed her other holidays in England and Wales.
commitments in the light of her Chairmanship of Grainger plc and has determined that they do not detract from the extent or quality of time Resolutions 4 to 12: Election of Directors which she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code on page 45 and there is additional information on page 53. which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2011. for re-election or election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the Annual The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and judgement General Meeting.
in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do not Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote in the Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors to the Company.
His biography appears on page 45 and there is Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 68 to 85 of the Report additional information on page 53. and Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning each Director can be found on pages 44 and 45 of the Report and Accounts.
Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since The following summary information is given in support of the Boards January 2010 and the Senior Independent Director since April 2010. proposal for the re-election of the Directors of the Company: The Board is satisfied that he continues to be independent in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
and of the Audit Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
The Board is and Remuneration Committees, and that his other commitments do satisfied that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high standard not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote including at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Committee to the Company.
His biography appears on page 45 and there is which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that his other additional information on page 53. commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 44 Humphrey Singer offers himself for election.
and there is additional information on page 52.
Humphrey has been an Independent Non Executive Director since Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
9 December 2015, having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography appears judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do on page 44 and there is additional information on page 53. not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
His biography appears on page 45 and there is Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010. additional information on page 53.
His biography appears on page 44 and there is additional The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently been information on page 53. subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are set out James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
in the Corporate Governance Report in the Report and Accounts on James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is also pages 46 to 57, and that each continues to demonstrate commitment the Group Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007. and to be an effective member of the Board.
In compliance with His biography appears on page 44 and there is additional information provision B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chairman hereby confirms that, on page 53. following the formal performance evaluation referred to above, the performance of each of the Non Executive Directors continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
152 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Resolution 13: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offeringthem as auditor of the Company to existing shareholders in proportion to their .
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting This authority would be limited to a allotments or sales in connection at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities proposed that the auditor is appointed from the conclusion of the 2016 if required by the rights of those shares or as the Board otherwise Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting considers necessary, or b otherwise up to an aggregate nominal at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
Following an annual amount of 1,632,161 representing 163,216,100 ordinary shares.
review of Deloittes performance, details of which are set out This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 10% of the on page 64, the Board recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 March 2016, the as the Companys auditor.
latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
The Board confirms that it will only allot shares representing more than 5% of the Resolution 14: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditor issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares, for cash pursuant to the authority referred to in b, where that allotment The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee to determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for is in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning given in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in which are given in the Audit Committee Report.
Details of non-audit services performed by Deloitte in 2015 are given in Note 6 on page the announcement of the allotment.
In respect of the authority referred to in b, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of 110 of the Report and Accounts.
the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior shares in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last consultation with shareholders, except in connection with an acquisition Annual General Meeting held on 23 April 2015 and is due to expire or specified capital investment as referred to above.
at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph A of resolution 15 would give the Directors the authority The authority will expire at the earlier of 27 July 2017 and the conclusion to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2017. securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount Resolution 17: Authority to make market purchases of shares equal to 10,881,077 representing 1,088,107,700 ordinary shares.
This Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more amount represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary capital of the Company as at 8 March 2016, the latest practicable date shares of the Company in issue at the close of business on prior to publication of this notice of meeting.
In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association formerly The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority would the Association of British Insurers TIA, paragraph B of resolution not exceed the highest of i 105% of the average of the middle market 15would give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 21,762,155 representing bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
Shares 2,176,215,500 ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount purchased pursuant to these authorities could be held as treasury of any shares issued under paragraph A of resolution 15.
This amount shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued and provides the Company with additional exibility in the management ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 March 2016, the latest of its capital base.
The total number of shares held as treasury shall not practicable date prior to publication of this notice of meeting.
at any one time exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any shares bought back over the 10% limit will be The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution 15 will expire at the earlier of 27 July 2017 and the conclusion of This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017. of utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the various share scheme arrangements.
The Board would only consider authorities sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise a more formal share purchase programme if it would result in an increase the authorities, the Directors intend to follow TIA recommendations in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders concerning their use including as regards the Directors standing generally, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
for re-election in certain cases.
The total number of options and conditional share awards to subscribe Special Resolutions for ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business on 8 March Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast to 2016 was 38,600,693, representing approximately 1.2% of the issued be cast in favour.
ordinary share capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 1.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any Resolution 16: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights exercise in full of this authority to make market purchases.
The Board wishes to renew the existing authority from shareholders to allot shares or sell any shares held in treasury for cash otherwise This authority will last until the earlier of 27 October 2017 and the than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution 16, conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2017. which will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour, would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the 153 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued Special Business As each transaction is in excess of 100,000, it constitutes a substantial Ordinary Resolutions property transaction with a Director of the Company under sections 190 Resolution 18: Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report and 191 of the Companies Act 2006 and therefore requires the approval for the year ended 31 December 2015 of shareholders, which is being sought at this Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are required to prepare an annual report detailing the The first property proposed to be acquired by Pete Redfern is a remuneration of the Directors and a statement by the Chairman of first floor, two bedroom apartment no.
3-1-2 on the Costa Beach the Remuneration Committee together the Directors Remuneration development in Mallorca for the sum of 278,000 representing full Report.
The Company is required to seek shareholders approval in market value.
A contract for the purchase will be entered into prior respect of the contents of this report on an annual basis.
The vote is to the Annual General Meeting, which will be conditional on receiving an advisory one.
approval for the transaction from the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The purchase price will be paid in full by Pete The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2014 AGM and remains unchanged.
In such Redfern prior to the Annual General Meeting and, in the event that shareholder approval is not forthcoming, these monies would then circumstances, the Policy need not be re-submitted to shareholders for three years unless amendments are proposed to it and accordingly, be repaid to him.
there is no equivalent resolution at this years AGM.
The calculation of the price paid by Pete Redfern excluding VAT or any other taxes is as follows: The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 68 to 85 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Price paid by Pete Redfern including reservation fee of 6,000 The Companys current Remuneration Policy is available on the paid on 8 March 2016 and sum to be repaid in the event that shareholder approval is not forthcoming at the AGM : 278,000 Companys website at: www.
co. uk corporate investorrelations corporate-governance The price of 278,000 represents 215,504 at the exchange rate of Resolution 19: Authority to make political donations 1 1.29 on 8 March 2016, being the latest practicable date prior In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 to the completion of this Notice of Meeting.
and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes The second property proposed to be acquired by Pete Redfern is to renew its existing authority for a general level of political donation and a top floor, two bedroom apartment no.
2-2-6 on the Costa Beach or expenditure.
Resolution 19 seeks to renew the existing authority for development in Mallorca for the sum of 375,000 representing full the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
market value, from which a standard employee discount of 5% is The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three to be deducted.
A contract for the purchase will be entered into heads as set out in Resolution 19 with a separate amount specified following the Annual General Meeting, should shareholder approval as permitted for each.
An amount not exceeding 250,000 for each be obtained at that meeting.
head of the authority has been proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution 19 extends approval to all of The calculation of the price payable by Pete Redfern excluding VAT or the Companys subsidiaries.
any other taxes is as follows: This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Price upon reservation 8 March 2016 : 375,000 of the Company in 2017, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
Standard employee discount 5% available to all The Company and the Group do not make any donations to Taylor Wimpey employees: 18,750 political parties or organisations and do not intend to going forward, Price payable by Pete Redfern: 356,250 but do support certain industry-wide bodies such as the Home Builders Standard reservation fee paid on 8 March 2016: 6,000 Federation in the UK.
Whilst the Board does not regard this as political Balance to be paid by Pete Redfern in nature, in certain circumstances such support together with donations if shareholder approval is given : 350,250 made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant provisions of the The price of 356,250 represents 276,163 at the exchange rate of Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity 1 1.29 on 8 March 2016, being the latest practicable date prior which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, to the completion of this Notice of Meeting.
paid leave to employees fulfilling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political The Costa Beach development comprises a residential scheme built organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006. by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U.
All purchasers have the option of buying standard fitted extras on commercial terms comprising domestic Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear electrical appliances for the kitchen and fixtures for the bathroom.
For on page 90 of the Report and Accounts.
both properties, Pete Redfern has elected to purchase such extras in Resolutions 20 to 22: Substantial property transactions each case at a price of 8,000 that represents 6,202 at the exchange Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, is proposing to purchase, rate of 1 1.29 on 8 March 2016, being the latest practicable date subject to shareholder approval, two properties from Taylor Wimpey fide prior to completion of this Notice of Meeting, and will receive no Espaa S. A. U. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, at its Costa discount on these items.
Beach development in Port Vell, Son Servera, Mallorca.
Ryan Mangold, a Director of the Company, is proposing to purchase, subject to shareholder approval, a property from Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, at its Radius development in Osiers Road, Wandsworth, London, SW18.
154 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Each purchase price was agreed following a rigorous review of The terms of each proposed purchase by Pete Redfern and Ryan the prices already obtained in the open market for similar properties, Mangold have been subjected to the usual level of scrutiny and less a discount of 5% for the second property only, pursuant to the review applied to all staff discount purchases and has included Companys standard employee discount scheme which is open to a review by the Companys Internal Audit function.
all employees following an initial period of employment.
Other than The Board believes the terms of the proposed agreements will be fair the standard employee discount which applies to the second property and reasonable and that the prices being paid by Pete Redfern and only, the price being paid by Pete Redfern in each case assumes that Ryan Mangold will be the market value of each property less the the transaction is an arms length sale.
The agreements between Taylor standard discount of 5% as described above on each of the second Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. and Pete Redfern will in each case, be a property only for Mr. Redfern and the property for Mr Mangold as at the standard form sale and purchase agreement used by Taylor Wimpey date of exchange of contracts.
Under the standard employee house fide Espaa S. A. U. for the Costa Beach development, save the contract purchase discount scheme which offers employees a discount of 5%, for the first property will be conditional upon the approval of the employees are only entitled to purchase one property from the Company Companys shareholders.
with discount in any twelve month period.
The property proposed to be acquired by Ryan Mangold is an apartment Special Resolution Plot 90 for the sum of 648,964 on the Radius development in Osiers Resolution 23: Notice of general meetings Road, Wandsworth, London, SW18.
A contract for the purchase will be Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast to entered into prior to the Annual General Meeting conditional on receiving be cast in favour.
The purchase price will be paid in full by Ryan This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore Mangold prior to the Annual General Meeting and in the event that requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies shareholder approval is not forthcoming at the Annual General Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice Meeting, then these monies would be repaid to him.
period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot The calculation of the price payable by Ryan Mangold is as follows: be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, Price upon reservation: 710,000 a resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to Average discount available to be held on at least 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days third party buyers: 26,880 notice.
As this approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual Price payable by third party buyer: 683,120 General Meeting, Resolution 23 proposes its renewal.
The shorter Standard employee discount 5% notice period of 14 clear days would not be used as a matter of routine available to all Taylor Wimpey employees: 34,156 for any general meeting, but only where the exibility is merited by the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the advantage Price payable by Ryan Mangold: 648,964 of shareholders as a whole.
The renewed approval will be effective until Amount paid by Ryan Mangold including the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2017, when it is intended reservation fee of 1,000 paid on 5 March 2016 that a similar resolution will be proposed.
prior to the AGM and sum to be repaid in the event that shareholder approval is not Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than forthcoming at the AGM : 648,964 21 clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting make available electronic voting to all shareholders.
The Radius development in Wandsworth, London comprises a residential scheme built by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited.
The purchase includes the supply of standard optional tted extras, available routinely to independent purchasers on similar commercial terms.
The purchase price was agreed following a rigorous review of the prices already obtained in the open market for similar properties, less a discount of 5%, pursuant to the Companys standard employee discount scheme which is open to all employees following an initial period of employment.
Other than the standard employee discount, the price being paid by Ryan Mangold assumes that the transaction is an arms length sale.
The agreement between Taylor Wimpey UK Limited and Ryan Mangold will be a standard form sale and purchase agreement used by Taylor Wimpey UK for the Radius development, save that it will be conditional upon the approval of the Companys shareholders and that in the event that shareholder approval is not forthcoming, any monies that have been paid by Ryan Mangold for the property will be repaid to him.
