STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Information for Investors Financial calendar Shareholding enquiries 2015 Annual General Meeting 29 July 2015 General enquiries 1 Announcement of half-year results for the six months to 30 September 2015 5 Nov 2015 Information on how to manage your 1 Announcement of full-year results for the year ending 31 March 2016 26 May 2016 shareholdings can be found at 1 www.
The website also 2016 Annual General Meeting 21 July 2016 provides answers to commonly asked 1 Provisional date.
shareholder questions and has links to downloadable forms, guidance notes Dividends paid on ordinary shares during the year ended 31 March 2015 and company history fact sheets.
Payment date Dividend description Dividend per share Email enquiries Equiniti Shareview 1 Aug 2014 19.8p Final 2014 Enquiry Service 2 Jan 2015 Interim 2015 8.2p If your question is not answered by the information provided online you can send your enquiry via secure email from the Dividend calendar for dividends on ordinary shares above website.
You will be asked to 2015 final 2016 interim 2016 final complete a structured form and to provide 1 1 Announced 28 May 2015 5 Nov 2015 26 May 2016 your shareholder reference number, name 2 1 1, 2 Payment date 31 July 2015 4 Jan 2016 29 July 2016 and address.
You will also need to provide your email address if this is how you would 1 Provisional date.
like to receive your response.
2 Subject to approval of shareholders.
Telephone enquiries 1 Dividends paid on 6% cumulative preference shares 0871 384 2063 for UK calls Paid each 31 March and 30 September.
Capital gains tax 1 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per The market values on 31 March 1982 for the purposes of indexation up to April 1998 inrelation minute plus network extras.
Lines are open to capital gains tax of Tate & Lyle PLC shares then in issue were: from Monday to Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm UK time excluding UK public holidays.
Ordinary share of 1 each 201.00p Written enquiries Equivalent value per ordinary share of 25p 50.25p Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer 6% cumulative preference share 43.50p Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Tate & Lyle American Depositary Shares ADSs Individual Savings Account ISA The Companys shares trade in the US on the over the counter OTCQX market in the form Tate & Lyles ordinary shares can be held of ADSs and these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
For information, please call the traded under the ticker symbol TATYY.
Each ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
For more Equiniti ISA Helpline on 0871 384 2244. information, contact The Bank of New York Mellon at: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 30170 College Station TX 77842-3170 Tel: 1 888 269 2377 for US calls 1 201 680 6825 for calls from outside the US Tate & Lyle website and On 10 April 2007, Tate & Lyle was approved for the International PremierQX tier of International share price information OTCQX.
This provides a gateway to US securities markets for international companies that are listed on a qualified international exchange.
Tate & Lyles ADR is identified with an International PremierQX logo and investors can find current financial information and other disclosures on www.
Electronic communications Shareholder documents are only sent in paper format to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way.
This approach enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published, to advise them how to access the documents via the Tate & Lyle website, www.
Shareholders may also choose to receive this notification via email with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish Tate & Lyles website provides direct links to receive email notification should register online at www.
co. uk, using their to other Group company sites andto sites shareholder reference number that is either on their share certificate or other correspondence.
providing financial and other information relevant to the Company.
The share price Beware of share fraud is availableonthe website with a Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited calls or correspondence offering to buy 20-minute delay.
or sell shares at a discounted price.
These calls are typically from fraudsters operating boiler rooms.
Boiler rooms use increasingly sophisticated means to approach investors and often leave their victims out of pocket.
If you are concerned that you may have been targeted by fraudsters www.
com please contact the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 159 USEFUL INFORMATION Glossary A L Acidulants Ingredients such as citric acid Constant currency Changes in constant Label friendly Denotes ingredients that, that are used to add a sour taste to foods currency are calculated by retranslating when listed on product ingredient labels, may and soft drinks and to act as a preservative.
comparative period results at current period appeal more to some consumers who show exchange rates.
a preference for ingredients in food products Adjusted Group Operating Cash Flow which they feel are more transparent, Adjusted cash flow from continuing operating Continuing operations Operations of the authentic, simpler and easier to understand activities excluding pensions, derivative Group excluding any discontinued operations than alternatives which may be perceived by financial instruments, tax, interest and as defined separately.
some consumers as being artificial, chemical acquisitions less capital expenditure.
Co-products Corn gluten feed, corn gluten or in some ways less authentic.
Adjusted operating profit PBITEA meal and corn oil.
Operating profit as defined separately, N Corn gluten feed The largest Tate & Lyle adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible co-product, used by dairy and beef Natural A natural description usually assets and net exceptional items and prepared cattle markets.
refers to a food ingredient that is present on a proportionately consolidated basis see in nature and has been minimally processed.
Note 1 to the Group Financial Statements.
However, interpretations vary according to Adjusted profit before tax PBTEA the different legal and regulatory landscape D Profit before taxation as defined separately, in different countries.
Discontinued operations An operation is adjusted for amortisation of acquired classified as discontinued if it is a component intangible assets, net exceptional items and O of the Group that: i has been disposed of, net retirement benefit interest and prepared Operating profit also referred to as profit or meets the criteria to be classified as held on a proportionately consolidated basis before interest and tax PBIT Sales less for sale: and ii represents a separate major see Note 1 to the Group Financial net operating expense.
line of business or geographic area of Statements.
operations or will be disposed of as part Adjusted sales Sales prepared on a P of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a proportionately consolidated basis Profit before tax PBT Sales, less net separate major line of business or geographic see Note 1 to the Group Financial Statements.
operating expense, less net finance expense.
Animal feed compounder Blends raw PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber A prebiotic DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose low-calorie sugar.
These blends are soluble fibre.
formulated according to the specific F PrOatein Oat Protein A natural protein requirements of the animal and generally come Food Systems The Tate & Lyle blending concentrate from oats.
in the form of a pellet or granular meal powder.
business which is part of SFI and which PromOat Beta Glucan A soluble fibre sources ingredients and uses them to develop B made from wholegrain oats used to bring bespoke combinations of ingredients for the health benefits of oat beta glucan to BI Bulk Ingredients division.
TM Bio-PDO Multi-purpose monomer Functional food ingredients Ingredients PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract propanediol made from corn sugar as opposed that offer benefits that go beyond the basic A zero-calorie sweetener made from monk fruit.
to being made from a petrochemical source.
nutritional role of the ingredient.
For example, Used in cosmetics, detergents, carpets some carbohydrates are reported to have S and textiles.
other benefits such as improved SFI Speciality Food Ingredients division.
Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e One G For Tate & Lyle, this means regional or global 2 metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an amount customers with turnover below the level of Greenhouse gas GHG Any of the following: of any other greenhouse gas with an approximately 500 million.
carbon dioxide CO, methane CH, 2 4 equivalent global warming potential, calculated nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons 2 SODA-LO Salt Microspheres A low salt consistently with international carbon reporting HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs, sulphur ingredient made from salt.
6 SPLENDA Sucralose A zero-calorie Cash conversion cycle Defined for the sweetener made from sugar.
purposes of the Annual Bonus Plan as the H number of days between cash expenditure STA-LITE Polydextrose A soluble fibre with HFCS High fructose corn syrup, also called and collection, taking account of inventory, prebiotic properties made from corn and used isoglucose in Europe.
payables and receivables: based on the to provide body and texture in reduced calorie, average of the four quarter-end results.
no-added sugar and high-fibre foods.
ICD Innovation and Commercial Development T group, supporting our two business divisions, Clean label A term used in the food and TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener A zero-calorie SFI and BI.
beverage industry generally to refer to simpler sweetener made from stevia.
ingredient lists that appeal more to consumers K than those containing complex ingredients.
Trading cash flows The Groups adjusted Interpretations may vary.
operating profit stated before the non-cash charges for depreciation and amortisation.
U USDA US Department of Agriculture.
160 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 Definitions explanatory notes Non-reliance statement Basis of preparation Environmental statement This Annual Report has been prepared Unless stated otherwise, the Groups financial This Annual Report has been printed on solely to provide additional information to statements are prepared in accordance with UPM Fine offset, a paper produced using shareholders to assess the Groups strategy International Financial Reporting Standards wood fibre from fully sustainable forests and the potential of that strategy to succeed, IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
with Forest Stewardship Council FSC and should not be relied upon by any other certification.
All pulps used are elemental Amortisation party or for any other purpose.
chlorine free and the manufacturing mill holds Unless stated otherwise, the use of the the ISO14001 and the EMAS accreditations Cautionary statement word amortisation on pages 1 to 80 in this for environmental management.
This Annual Report contains certain forwardAnnual Report relates to the amortisation looking statements with respect to the of intangible assets acquired through Printed in the UK by Pureprint using vegetable financial condition, results, operations and business combinations.
inks and its Alcofree and Pureprint businesses of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Pureprint Continuing operations statements and forecasts involve risk and is a CarbonNeutral company, is registered Unless stated otherwise, all comments uncertainty because they relate to events and to the Environmental Management System ISO in this Annual Report refer to the continuing depend upon circumstances that may occur in 14001 and is FSC chain-of-custody certified.
operations adjusted to exclude exceptional the future.
There are a number of factors that items, amortisation of intangible assets If you have finished with this Annual Report could cause actual results or developments acquired through business combinations and and no longer wish to retain it, please pass to differ materially from those expressed or net retirement benefit interest.
A reconciliation it on to other interested readers or dispose implied by these forward-looking statements of reported and adjusted information is of it in your recycled paper waste.
The CO emissions from the production 2 Tate & Lyle PLC Definitions and distribution of this Annual Report have Tate & Lyle PLC is a public limited company In this Annual Report, Company means been offset through the purchase of carbon listed on the London Stock Exchange and is Tate & Lyle PLC: Tate & Lyle or Group credits in the Pureprint Gold programme.
The registered in England and Wales.
More means Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiary offsets are always in Gold Standard accredited information about Tate & Lyle can be found on and joint-venture companies.
projects and currently come from the Basa the Companys website, www.
Magogo project in South Africa.
The first Gold Standard project of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviour-change programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal more efficiently, thereby reducing carbon emissions and reducing health risks by producing less smoke.
Registered office Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AT Tel: 44 0 20 7257 2100 Fax: 44 0 20 7257 2200 Company number: 76535 www.
com Credits Photography David Hares Designed and produced by Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2015 www.
