s r e n e t e e w S T e x t u STRATEGIC REPORT | OUR OPERATIONS How do we support our divisions?
Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients are supported by our Innovation and Commercial Development group and our new Global Operations group.
Innovation and Commercial Development ICD Open ICD is a key enabler of Tate & Lyles growth strategy.
It brings innovation together open innovation, research and development, global marketing and platform management into one global team, to provide an integrated approach towards developing and commercialising innovative new products and technologies.
Innovation While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyles divisions, it Platform Research and and Commercial concentrates particularly on SFI.
As a result, ICDs resources management development Development are predominantly focused on three broad platforms within the global speciality food ingredients market sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness.
Ideas are generated from both internal and external sources.
Internally, these come from work done by our own scientists.
Global marketing Externally, we generate ideas from engagement with our customers and from our dedicated Open Innovation team which seeks to develop partnerships with universities, research institutions and start-ups specialising in food science and novel ingredients.
Global Operations Global Operations, established in November 2014, is responsible for safety, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, sales Safety and operations planning, customer service, corn procurement, Process sustainability, and process technology.
Manufacturing technology The creation of Global Operations represents an important step towards simplifying our global structure and allowing the different parts of the business to focus on what they do best our commercial divisions on serving customers, and Global Operations Global Transportation Sustainability on delivering operational and supply chain excellence.
logistics Operations The Group also has a Global Quality team which is responsible for overseeing the application of strict quality control procedures and testing of all product lines.
The Global Quality team is independent Sales and Corn of the Global Operations group.
operations procurement planning Customer service Global Shared Services Centre Global IS IT system Our Global Shared Services Centre, based in dz, Poland, The core of our business operates a single integrated information supports a common way of working across our business.
We have systems and information technology IS IT system, which was standardised our systems and financial processes, to provide a specifically designed for the increasingly global nature of our platform to deliver efficiency gains by eliminating the unnecessary business and the progressively more complex supply chains we duplication of resources.
Our team of over 220 multilingual have around the world.
The new system will allow us to gather employees, scalable office space and team structure mean and process information more quickly, enabling us to be more it can be a centre of excellence that grows with the business.
04 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 r a n t s s s e n l l e w d n a h t l a e H S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T GO GOVE VER RN NA AN NC CE E F FI IN NA ANC NCIA IAL L S ST TA ATE TEM ME ENT NTS S U US SE EF FUL UL I INF NFO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N The strength of Tate & Lyles business derives from four main areas: Attractiveness Strong foundation 1 2 of our global for growth in markets Speciality Food Ingredients Resilient, cash Strong financial 3 4 generative Bulk position Ingredients business OUR MARKETPLACE OUR BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGY IN ACTION An increasingly How our business How we are executing  creates value our strategy p14 p16 p20
