Taylor Wimpey plc Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.
co. uk Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year to 31 December 2015 million Note 2015 2014 1.
Significant accounting policies Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an operation, Basis of preparation but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related to the Net cash from operating activities 26 406.9 192.7 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going operation.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups share concern basis and under the historical cost convention except as of revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
Investing activities otherwise stated below.
Segmental reporting Interest received 0.6 0.4 The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Dividends received from joint ventures 0.8 2.5 consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
Spain, both of which were previously reported as operating segments.
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.4 During 2015, following a review of the operational structure of the Going concern Purchases of property, plant and equipment 12 5.6 9.7 business, the previous South Division of the UK Housing business was The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking Purchases of software 11 1.5 separated into the Central and South West Division, and the London and into account the principal risks identified on pages 34 to 37.
Having South East Division, while the North Division remained unchanged.
The Amounts repaid by invested in joint ventures 15.6 3.8 considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Chairmen of the two new Divisions joined the Group Management Team Net cash generated from used in investing activities 10.6 10.2 Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provide both alongside the Chairman of the North Division as well as the Managing the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group Director of the Central London regional business which sits within the to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
Financing activities London and South East Division, who also has responsibility for the Proceeds from sale of own shares 2.9 Groups integrated London strategy.
The information on segment Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared performance presented to the Groups chief operating decision on a going concern basis.
Cash received on exercise of share options 2.4 3.4 maker was also revised to reflect the new operating structure.
Purchase of own shares 2.0 10.0 Basis of accounting Dividends paid 308.4 72.7 In response to these changes management has updated its identification The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance of the Groups operating segments, determining that in the United with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial Net cash used in financing activities 308.0 76.4 Kingdom, for management reporting and control purposes, there are now statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as four geographical operating segments, as well as an additional operating endorsed by the European Union and therefore the Group financial Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 109.5 106.1 segment covering the corporate functions, Major Developments and statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 212.8 105.4 Strategic Land.
However management has determined that it is Basis of consolidation Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.0 1.3 appropriate for the London and South East Division and the Central The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements London regional business to be aggregated as one operating segment Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 26 323.3 212.8 of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries due to the fact that they share similar economic characteristics.
In making made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the this judgement management has taken into consideration the fact that the Company has the power to direct the relevant activities of an investee Groups developments within the Greater London area are undertaken by entity and obtain variable returns from its activities.
The existence several regional businesses within the London and South East Division as and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or well as the Central London regional business and as such the Groups convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group exposure to the London market extends beyond the Central London controls another entity.
Management has also assessed that both segments have similar long term financial performance, as demonstrated by similar On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a average gross margins and similar production processes, types of subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
customers, sales channels and regulatory environments.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost As such the segmental reporting for 2015 with the prior year restated is: of acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired Housing United Kingdom: i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated North at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair value of the assets Central and South West and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, all comprehensive income is London and South East including Central London attributed to the owners and the non-controlling interests, which may result in the non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
Corporate Housing Spain The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of Revenue acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted a major line of business, it is receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Where necessary, adjustments are eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting as follows: policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group a Private housing development properties and land sales transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant on consolidation.
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
Joint ventures Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties is recognised Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable on joint control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either voting legal completion.
rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses.
