FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation criteria to be classified as held for sale: and ii Reconciliations of the adjusted performance measures to the most directly comparable represents a separate major line of business Description of business or geographic area of operations or will be measures presented in accordance with IFRS Tate & Lyle PLC the Company is a public are presented in Note 41. disposed of as part of a single co-ordinated limited company incorporated and domiciled plan to dispose of a separate major line of in the United Kingdom.
The Companys Accounting standards adopted during business or geographic area of operations.
ordinary shares are listed on the London the year As the Eaststarch disposal transaction was Stock Exchange.
In the current year, the Group has adopted not highly probable at the balance sheet date, a number of new or revised accounting The Company, and its subsidiaries, joint the assets are not classified as held for sale.
ventures and associates together the Group standards that are outlined below.
With the Continuing operations therefore include the exception of the changes arising from the provides ingredients and solutions to the food, results of Eaststarch.
The Group adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, Fair value measurement and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other operates from more than 30 production facilities around the world.
Fair value is the price that would be received Entities the Groups principal accounting from the sale of an asset, or paid to transfer policies are unchanged compared with The Groups continuing operations comprise a liability in an orderly transaction between the year ended 31 March 2014. two operating segments: Speciality Food market participants at the measurement date, Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Segment IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial regardless of whether that price is directly information is presented in Note 4.
Statements observable or estimated using another IFRS 10 replaces the parts of IAS 27 valuation technique.
In estimating the fair value Accounting period Consolidated and Separate Financial of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into The Groups annual financial statements Statements that deal with consolidated account the characteristics of the asset or are drawn up to 31 March.
These financial financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation liability if market participants would take those statements cover the year ended Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 characteristics into account when pricing the 31 March 2015 with comparative amounts establishes a single control model for asset or liability at the measurementdate.
The Group consolidation that applies to all entities, has also presented a statement of financial Fair value measurements are categorised into including special purpose entities.
position as at 1 April 2013 following the Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
the inputs to the fair value measurements are With effect from 1 April 2014, the Group observable and the significance of the inputs Basis of accounting adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements which to the fair value measurement in its entirety, The consolidated financial statements on has significantly changed the basis of asfollows: pages 85 to 148 have been prepared on the accounting for its interests in joint ventures going concern basis in accordance with Level 1 inputs are quoted prices while not affecting the Groups earnings or International Financial Reporting Standards unadjusted in active markets for identical net assets.
IFRS and related interpretations as adopted assets or liabilities that the entity can Previously, the Group had accounted for its for use in the European Union and those parts assess at the measurement date interests in joint ventures on a proportionate of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than consolidation basis, whereby the Groups to companies reporting under IFRS.
The quoted prices included in Level 1, that share of the income and expenses, assets consolidated financial statements have been are observable for the asset or liability and liabilities and cash flows of joint ventures prepared under the historical cost convention, either directly or indirectly are combined on a line-by-line basis with modified in respect of the revaluation to fair Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs those of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries.
value of available-for-sale financial assets, for the asset or liability.
IFRS 11 prohibits the use of proportionate derivative financial instruments, assets consolidation and requires that joint ventures Use of adjusted measures classified as held for sale and assets held are accounted for using the equity method Tate & Lyle presents adjusted performance by defined benefit pension plans.
Under the equity method of measures including adjusted sales, operating The Groups principal accounting policies are accounting, the Groups share of the after tax profit, profit before tax and earnings per share set out in Note 2. profits and losses of joint ventures is shown on that are used for internal performance analysis one line of the consolidated income statement, and incentive compensation arrangements for Company financial statements its share of their net assets is shown on one employees and are presented because they The Company has not adopted IFRS and line of the consolidated statement of financial provide investors with valuable additional prepares its separate financial statements position and the consolidated statement of information about the performance of the in accordance with applicable law and UK cash flows reflects cash flows between the business.
For the periods presented, adjusted Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
The Group and the joint ventures within cash flows performance measures exclude, where Companys separate financial statements from investing activities.
relevant, exceptional items, the amortisation are set out on pages 150 to 155. of acquired intangible assets, net retirement Comparative amounts for 2014 have been Going concern benefit interest and tax on those adjustments.
An explanation For the reasons set out on page 33, the Adjusted measures are also presented using and analysis of the effect of IFRS 11 on the Directors have adopted the going concern proportionate consolidation reflecting the Groups financial information is presented in basis in preparing the Companys and the Groups management of its joint ventures on Note 42.
In accordance with IAS 1, the Group Groups financial statements.
an integrated basis with its subsidiaries.
has also presented a third statement of Adjusted performance measures reported by financial position as at 1 April 2013.
Discontinued operations the Group are not defined terms under IFRS In the Groups financial statements, the IAS 27 Revised 2011 Separate Financial and may therefore not be comparable with results, assets and liabilities and cash flows similarly-titled measures reported by other Statements of discontinued operations are presented IAS 27 Revised 2011 now only deals with the companies.
The Directors do not regard these separately from those of continuing measures as a substitute for, or superior to, requirements to prepare separate financial operations.
An operation is classified as statements because the requirements to the equivalent measures presented in discontinued if it is a component of the Group accordance with IFRS.
prepare consolidated financial statements are that: i has been disposed of, or meets the now contained in IFRS10.
90 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 1 Basis of preparation The amendment provides relief from operating policy decisions but not to control continued discontinuing hedge accounting when or jointly control them.
Significant influence novation of a hedging instrument meets generally exists where the Group holds more IAS 28 Revised 2011 Investments in specified criteria.
than 20% and less than 50% of the Associates and Joint Ventures shareholders voting rights.
Associates are IAS 28 was revised as a consequence of the 2 Principal accounting policies accounted for under the equity method, issuance of IFRS 11 in order to set out the Basis of consolidation whereby the Groups share of the profit or loss, requirements for the application of the equity a Subsidiaries other comprehensive income and net assets method when accounting for joint ventures.
Subsidiaries are all entities including are shown on one line of the relevant primary IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other structured entities over which the Group has financial statements.
The Group controls an entity when the Entities Losses of an associate in excess of the IFRS 12 is a new standard that prescribes Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Groups interest in the entity are not returns from its involvement with the entity and disclosure requirements for all forms of recognised, except to the extent that the interests in other entities, including joint has the ability to affect those returns through Group has incurred obligations or made ventures and associates.
its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully payments on behalf of theassociate.
consolidated from the date on which the Group Interest in subsidiaries obtains control.
They are deconsolidated from Unrealised profits or losses on transactions IFRS 12 requires disclosures for each of the date that control ceases.
between the Group and its associates are an entitys subsidiaries that have material normally eliminated to the extent of the non-controlling interests.
As of 31 March A non-controlling interest in a subsidiary Groups interest in the associate.
Losses 2015, the Group did not have any subsidiaries represents the share of the net assets of the are, however, recognised in full where they with a material non-controlling interest.
subsidiary that is attributable to the equity represent a reduction in the net realisable interest in the subsidiary that is not owned Interest in Joint Ventures and Associates value of a current asset or an impairment loss.
IFRS 12 has significantly changed the way that the Group presents and discloses The Groups income and expenses, assets Business combinations information about its interests in joint and liabilities and cash flows include those of A business combination is a transaction or ventures and associates.
The disclosures for each of its subsidiaries from the date on which other event in which the Group obtains control individual joint ventures and associates are the Company obtains control until such time over a business.
more prescriptive than previously required by as control is lost.
Inter-company transactions, Business combinations are accounted for IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, and IAS balances and unrealised gains on transactions using the acquisition method.
As presented between group companies are eliminated.
in Note 16, for those joint ventures which are Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
When Goodwill arising in a business combination material to the Group, summarised financial necessary, amounts reported by subsidiaries represents the excess of the sum of the information has been provided.
The have been adjusted to conform with the consideration transferred, the amount of information disclosed reflects the amounts Groups accounting policies.
any non-controlling interest in the acquired required to be presented in the financial business and, in a business combination b Joint ventures statements of the joint ventures, together achieved in stages, the fair value at the A joint venture is a contractual arrangement with the Groups share of those amounts.
acquisition date of the Groups previously under which the Group and other parties Comparative amounts for 2014 have also held equity interest, over the net total of the undertake an activity that is subject to joint been provided on a consistent basis.
identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired control, whereby strategic financial and business at the acquisition date.
Any shortfall Other standards operating policy decisions require unanimous is recognised immediately as a gain in the Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: consent of the Group and the other parties.
Presentation on offsetting financial assets and The Groups interests in joint ventures are Consideration transferred represents the financial liabilities.
This amendment clarifies that accounted for under the equity method, the right of set-off must not be contingent on a whereby the Groups share of the profit or loss, sum of the fair values at the acquisition date of the assets given, liabilities incurred or future event.
It must also be legally enforceable other comprehensive income and net assets for all counterparties in the normal course of are shown on one line of the relevant primary assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control over the business, as well as in the event of default, financial statements.
The amendment also acquired business.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the considers settlement mechanisms.
Groups interest in the entity are not Acquisition-related costs are charged to the Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets recognised, except to the extent that the income statement in the period in which they on the recoverable amount disclosures for Group has incurred obligations or made are incurred.
This amendment payments on behalf of thejoint venture.
Identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired removed certain disclosures of the recoverable Unrealised profits or losses on transactions business are measured at their fair value at the amount of CGUs which had been included in between the Group and its joint ventures are acquisition date, except for certain items that IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13. normally eliminated to the extent of the are measured in accordance with the relevant Groups interest in the joint venture.
Losses Group accounting policy, including retirement Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement on the novation are, however, recognised in full where they benefit obligations and deferred tax assets represent a reduction in the net realisable and liabilities.
of derivatives and the continuation of hedge accounting.
This amendment considers value of a current asset or an impairment loss.
Any non-controlling interest in the acquired legislative changes to over-the-counter c Associates business is measured either at fair value or derivatives and the establishment of central An associate is an entity over which the Group at the non-controlling interests proportionate counterparties.
Under IAS 39 novation of has significant influence.
Significant influence share of the identifiable assets and liabilities derivatives to central counterparties would is the power to participate in financial and of the business.
result in discontinuance of hedge accounting.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies b Interest income software costs and capitalised costs relating continued Interest income is recognised on a timeto the common global IS IT system.
proportion basis using the effective interest Put options issued by the Group over Costs incurred on the development, non-controlling interests are initially recognised ratemethod.
design and testing of new or improved as a liability measured at fair value with a c Dividend income products are capitalised only when the corresponding charge directly to equity.
technical and commercial feasibility of the Dividend income is recognised when the right Subsequently, the liability is measured at to receive payment is established.
product has been proven and prior to the amortised cost using the effective interest product going into full production.
Research method and changes in its carrying amount Exceptional items and other development expenditures are are recognised in the income statement.
Exceptional items comprise items of income charged to the income statement in the and expense, including tax items, that are period in which they are incurred.
Changes in the Groups ownership interest in a material in amount and unlikely to recur and subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control Other intangibles include marketing-related which merit separate disclosure in order to are accounted for within equity.
Any gain or intangibles relating to several key customers.
provide an understanding of the Groups loss on loss of control is recognised in the underlying financial performance.
Examples of Other intangible assets are amortised on a income statement.
events giving rise to the disclosure of material straight-line basis so as to charge their cost items of income and expense as exceptional Foreign currency translation over the periods of their expected benefit to At entity level, transactions in foreign items include, but are not limited to, the Group, which are in the range of three to impairment events, significant business currencies are translated into the entitys 10 years.
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling transformation activities, disposals of Capitalised costs in respect of the global IS IT operations or significant individual assets, at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets system are being amortised over seven years.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies litigation claims by or against the Group and the restructuring of components of the are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Property, plant and equipment the period-end date.
Land and buildings mainly comprise differences arising at entity level are manufacturing sites and administrative facilities.
Borrowing costs recognised in the income statement.
Plant and machinery mainly comprises Borrowing costs directly arising from the equipment used in the manufacturing and The consolidated financial statements are purchase, construction or production of an operating process.
Assets under the course presented in pounds sterling which is the asset are capitalised as part of the cost of of construction comprise property, plant and Companys functional currency.
equipment which is in the process of being On consolidation, the results of foreign Goodwill completed and not ready for use.
operations are translated into pounds sterling Goodwill arising in a business combination Property, plant and equipment is stated at at the average rate of exchange for the period is recognised as an intangible asset and is and their assets and liabilities are translated historical cost less accumulated depreciation allocated to the cash-generating unit CGU and impairment.
Historical cost includes into pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling or group of CGUs that is expected to benefit at the period-end date.
Currency translation expenditure that is directly attributable to the from the synergies of the business acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs differences arising on consolidation are combination.
recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the assets carrying amount Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for or recognised as a separate asset, as and taken to the currency translation reserve.
impairment annually and whenever there are appropriate, only when it is probable that Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising events or changes in circumstances that future economic benefits associated with the on the acquisition of a foreign operation are indicate that its carrying amount may not expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign berecoverable.
of the item can be measured reliably.
All operation and translated accordingly.
repairs and maintenance expenditures are Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised In the event that a foreign operation is sold, charged to the income statement during the impairment losses.
the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the period in which they are incurred.
income statement is determined after taking Other intangible assets Depreciation is calculated using the straightinto account the cumulative currency translation Other intangible assets are stated at cost less line method to allocate the cost of each asset differences arising on consolidation of the accumulated amortisation and any recognised to its residual value over its useful economic operation subsequent to the adoption of IFRS.
Other than goodwill, all life asfollows: intangible assets recognised by the Group In the cash flow statement, the cash flows of have finite useful lives.
Freehold land No depreciation foreign operations are translated into pounds Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years sterling at the average exchange rate for a Acquired in business combinations Leasehold property Period of the lease theperiod.
An intangible resource acquired in a business Bulk liquid storage tanks 12 to 20 years combination is recognised as an intangible Revenue recognition Plant and machinery 3 to 28 years asset if it is separable from the acquired a Sales of goods and services business or arises from contractual or legal Residual values and useful lives are reviewed Sales comprise the amount receivable in rights.
Acquired intangible assets, for example, at each period-end date and adjusted if the ordinary course of business, net of value patents and customer relationships, are appropriate.
An assets carrying amount is added and sales taxes, for goods and services amortised on a straight-line basis so as to written down immediately to its recoverable provided.
It comprises the fair value of the charge their cost, which represents their fair amount if the assets carrying amount is consideration received or receivable for the value at the date of acquisition, over the greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
sale of goods and services.
Sales are periods of their expected benefit to the Group, recognised at the point or points at which Gains and losses on disposals are determined which are in the range three to 15 years.
the Group has performed its obligations in by comparing the disposal proceeds with connection with the contractual terms of the b Other intangibles the carrying amount and are included in the sales agreement, primarily at the point of Other intangible assets mainly comprise income statement.
delivering to the customer, and in exchange certain product development expenditure, obtains the right to consideration.
marketing-related intangibles, computer 92 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 2 Principal accounting policies goodwill is tested for impairment.
When written off are credited against operating goodwill is tested for impairment and the continued expenses in the income statement.
carrying amount of the CGU or group of CGUs Leased assets b Trade payables to which it is allocated exceeds its recoverable Leases of property, plant and equipment Non-current and current trade payables amount, the impairment is allocated first to where the Group assumes substantially all the are recognised initially at fair value and reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and risks and rewards of ownership are classified subsequently measured at amortised cost then pro-rata to the other non-financial assets as finance leases.
Assets held under finance using the effective interest rate method.
belonging to the CGU or group of CGUs on leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair the basis of their respective carrying amounts.
value of the leased asset and the present c Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in value of the minimum lease payments.
The Impairment losses are recognised in the corresponding leasing commitments, net hand, deposits held at call with banks and income statement.
Impairment losses other short-term highly liquid investments with of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
recognised in previous periods for assets other original maturities of three months or less and, than goodwill are reversed if there has been Leasing payments are analysed between for the purposes of the cash flow statement a change in the estimates used to determine capital and interest components so that the only, bank overdrafts where the legal right of the assets recoverable amount, but only to the interest element is charged to the income offset exists.
extent that the carrying amount of the asset statement over the period of the lease at a does not exceed its carrying amount had d Available-for-sale financial assets constant periodic rate of interest on the no impairment been recognised in previous remaining balance of the liability outstanding.
and other financial assets periods.
Impairment losses recognised in Equity instruments held by the Group and Depreciation on assets held under finance respect of goodwill cannot be reversed.
designated as available-for-sale are carried leases is charged to the income statement, at fair value, with movements in fair value and depreciated over the shorter of the lease Inventories recognised in other comprehensive income.
All other leases are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, treated as operating leases with annual rentals net realisable value with the exception of the assets are approximated at cost.
charged to the income statement, net of any certain items of merchandisable agricultural Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an incentives granted to the lessee, over the term commodities in the US which are stated at asset are recycled through the income of the lease with incentives recognised over the market value, in line with regional industry statement when the asset is disposed or period of the lease at a constant periodic rate.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a security below its cost is Cost comprises direct materials and, where Impairment of non-financial assets applicable, direct labour costs and those considered as an indicator that the securities Goodwill, other intangible assets and property, are impaired.
Impairments are recognised overheads that have been incurred in bringing plant and equipment are tested for impairment the inventories to their present location and in the income statement.
Other financial assets whenever events or circumstances indicate represent cash held in an escrow account and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first in that their carrying amounts may not be first out or weighted average cost methods, are carried at fair value.
Additionally, goodwill and appropriate to the materials and production intangible assets not subject to amortisation e Borrowings processes involved.
Net realisable value are subject to an annual impairment test.
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, represents the estimated selling price less all net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings An asset is impaired to the extent that its estimated costs to completion and costs to be are subsequently measured at amortised cost carrying amount exceeds its recoverable incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
using the effective interest rate method, amount.
An assets recoverable amount Provisions are made for any slow moving, whereby any difference between the proceeds represents the higher of the assets value in obsolete or defective inventories.
net of transaction costs and the initial fair use and its fair value less costs of disposal.
value is recognised in the income statement An assets value in use represents the present Financial instruments over the period of the borrowings.
As explained value of the future cash flows expected to a Trade receivables under Hedge accounting see following page, be derived from continued use of the asset.
Trade receivables are recognised initially the carrying amount of a borrowing may be Fair value less costs of disposal is the at fair value and subsequently measured at subject to adjustment where it is a hedged amount obtainable from the sale of the asset amortised cost using the effective interest liability in a fair value hedge.
in an arms length transaction between method, less provision for impairment.
A knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs Borrowings are classified as current liabilities provision for impairment of trade receivables of disposal.
unless the Group has an unconditional right is established when there is objective evidence to defer settlement of the liability for at least Where it is not possible to estimate the that the Group will not be able to collect all 12 months after period-end date.
recoverable amount of an individual asset, amounts due according to the original terms of the recoverable amount is determined for the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties Dividends on preference shares are recognised the CGU to which the asset belongs.
An of the debtor, probability that the debtor will in the income statement as interest expense.
assets CGU is the smallest group of assets enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, f Derivative financial instruments that includes that asset and generates cash and default or delinquency in payments are The Group uses derivative financial instruments inflows that are largely independent of the cash considered indicators that the trade receivable to reduce its exposure to commodity price, inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The amount of the provision is currency exchange rate and interest rate Goodwill does not generate cash inflows the difference between the assets carrying movements.
The Group does not hold or issue independently of other assets and is, therefore, amount and the present value of estimated derivatives for speculative purposes.
tested for impairment at the level of the CGU or future cash flows, discounted at the original group of CGUs to which it isallocated.
The carrying amount All derivative financial instruments held by the of the asset is reduced through the use of an Group are recognised as assets or liabilities Value in use is based on estimates of pre-tax allowance account, and the amount of the loss measured at their fair values at the period-end cash flows discounted at a pre-tax discount is recognised in the income statement within date.
As explained under Hedge accounting rate that reflects the risks specific to the CGU operating expenses.
When a trade receivable below, unless and to the extent that a to which the asset belongs.
is uncollectable, it is written off against the derivative is in a designated and effective cash Where necessary, impairment of non-financial allowance account for trade receivables.
flow or net investment hedging relationship, assets other than goodwill is recognised before Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies statement.
If a hedged forecast transaction is lower than the unavoidable cost to the Group no longer expected to occur, the cumulative of meeting its obligations under the contract.
continued fair value gain or loss is immediately transferred fair value gains and losses on derivatives are Income taxes to the income statement.
recognised in the income statement.
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or b Net investment hedges Derivative financial instruments that are not recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or A net investment hedge is the hedge of the in a designated hedging relationship are loss for the period.
Taxable profit differs from currency exposure on the retranslation of the classified as held for trading.
accounting profit because it excludes income Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
and expenses that are recognised in the g Embedded derivatives period for accounting purposes but are either Where an embedded derivative is not closely Net investment hedges are accounted for not taxable or not deductible for tax purposes similarly to cash flow hedges.
Changes in the related to the host contract and where the or are taxable or deductible in earlier or host contract itself is not already recognised fair value of the hedging instrument are, to the subsequent periods.
Current tax is calculated extent that the hedge is effective, recognised at fair value, movements in the fair value of the using tax rates that have been enacted or embedded derivative are separated from the in other comprehensive income.
substantively enacted at the period-end date.
associated transaction and, except where the In the event that the foreign operation is embedded derivative is designated as a cash Deferred tax is tax payable or recoverable on disposed of, the cumulative fair value gain or flow hedging instrument, recognised in the temporary differences between the carrying loss recognised in other comprehensive income statement.
amount of an asset or liability in the financial income is transferred to the income statement statements and its tax base used in the where it is included in the gain or loss on h Offsetting financial instruments computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax disposal of the foreign operation.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are is accounted for using the liability method, offset and the net amount presented in the c Fair value hedges whereby deferred tax liabilities are generally statement of financial position where there Hedging relationships are classified as fair recognised for all taxable temporary is a legally enforceable right to offset the value hedges where the hedging instrument differences and deferred tax assets are recognised amounts and there is an intention hedges the exposure to changes in the fair recognised to the extent that it is probable to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and value of a recognised asset or liability that is that taxable profits will be available in the settle the liability simultaneously.
attributable to a particular risk such as the fair foreseeable future against which deductible value of fixed rate debt.
Hedge accounting For a hedging relationship to qualify for Where the hedging relationship is classified as Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not hedge accounting, it must be documented a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the recognised if the temporary differences arise at inception together with the Groups risk hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the from the initial recognition of goodwill or from management objective and strategy for change in its fair value attributable to the hedged the initial recognition of other assets and initiating the hedge and it must both be risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised liabilities in a transaction other than a business expected to be highly effective in offsetting the in the income statement where, to the extent combination that affects neither accounting changes in cash flows or fair value attributed that the hedge is effective, it offsets the fair profit nor taxable profit.
to the hedged risk and actually be highly value gain or loss on the hedging instrument.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for effective in doing so.
taxable temporary differences arising on Provisions a Cash flow hedges investments in foreign subsidiaries and A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or Hedging relationships are classified as cash associates, and interests in joint ventures, amount that is recognised when the Group flow hedges where the hedging instrument except where the Group is able to control has a present obligation legal or constructive hedges exposure to variability in cash flows the reversal of the temporary difference and as a result of a past event, it is more likely than that are attributable either to a particular risk it is probable that it will not reverse in the not that a payment will be required to settle the associated with a recognised asset or liability foreseeable future.
obligation and the amount can be estimated such as interest payments on variable rate reliably.
Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or debt, a highly probable forecast transaction substantively enacted rates that are expected such as commodity purchases or the foreign Where the effect is material, the expected future payments are discounted using a to apply when the asset is recovered or the currency risk in a firm commitment such as liability is settled.
the purchase of an item of equipment.
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Current tax assets and liabilities are offset Where a hedging relationship is classified as a money and, where appropriate, the risks when there is a legally enforceable right to set cash flow hedge, to the extent that the hedge specific to the liability.
The unwinding of any off the amounts and management intends to is effective, changes in the fair value of the discount is recognised in the income statement settle on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and hedging instrument are recognised in other within finance expense.
liabilities are offset when they relate to income comprehensive income rather than in the Provision is made for restructuring costs taxes levied by the same taxation authority income statement.
When the hedged item and the Group intends to settle its current tax affects the income statement, the cumulative when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been determined and assets and liabilities on a net basis.
fair value gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the the plan has been communicated to those Current and deferred tax is recognised in affected by it.
Gains from the expected income statement.
When a hedged firm the income statement unless it relates to commitment results in the recognition of a disposal of assets are not taken into account an item that is recognised in the same or a in measuring restructuring provisions.
non-current asset, the initial carrying amount different period outside the income statement, of the asset is adjusted for the cumulative fair in which case it too is recognised outside the Provisions are not recognised for future value gain or loss.
income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or Provisions are recognised for onerous if the hedging relationship no longer meets the contracts to the extent that the benefits conditions for hedge accounting, the cumulative expected to be derived from a contract are fair value gain or loss remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income 94 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 2 Principal accounting policies losses.
Actuarial gains and losses represent Assets held for sale the effect of changes in the actuarial continued An asset or group of assets is classified as held assumptions made in measuring the present for sale if its carrying amount will be principally Retirement benefits value of the benefit obligation and experience recovered through a sale transaction rather As described in Note 29, the Group operates differences between those assumptions and than through continuing use in the business, pension plans in most of the countries in which actual outcomes.
Actuarial gains and losses it is available for immediate sale in its present it operates.
Defined benefit pension plans are are recognised in full in the period in which condition and management has committed to, principally in the UK and the US and, until theyoccur.
and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset which, December 2013, were also in the Netherlands, when initiated, was expected to result in a and the Group operates a number of defined b Defined contribution plans completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that contribution pension plans.
The Group also Contributions made by the Group to defined are classified as held for sale are measured at operates defined benefit retirement medical contribution pension schemes are recognised the lower of their carrying amount when they plans in theUS.
in the income statement in the period in which were classified as held for sale and their fair they falldue.
a Defined benefit plans value less costs to sell.
A valuation of each of the defined benefit plans Share-based incentives for accounting purposes is carried out Accounting standards issued but not As described in Note 25, the Company annually at 31 March by independent qualified yet adopted operates share-based compensation plans actuaries.
Benefit obligations are measured A number of new standards and amendments under which it grants awards over its ordinary using the projected unit credit method and to standards and interpretations have been shares to its own employees and to those of are discounted using the market yields on high issued that are relevant to the Group but had its subsidiaries.
All of the awards granted quality corporate bonds denominated in the not been adopted at 31 March 2015. under the existing plans are classified as same currency as, and of similar duration to, equity-settled awards.
The Group recognises a IFRS 9 Financial instruments the benefit obligations.
Plan assets are a compensation expense that is based on the IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measured at their fair value at the period-end fair value of the awards measured at the grant measurement and recognition of financial date.
Where a plan holds a qualifying date using the Black-Scholes option pricing assets and financial liabilities.
The complete insurance policy, the fair value of the policy is formula.
Fair value is not subsequently version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. deemed to be equivalent to the present value remeasured unless relevant conditions It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates of the related benefit obligations.
A deficit or attaching to the award are modified.
to the classification and measurement of surplus is recognised on each plan which financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but represents the difference between the present Fair value reflects any market performance simplifies the mixed measurement model value of the benefit obligation and the fair value conditions and all non-vesting conditions.
and establishes three primary measurement of the plan assets.
Where a plan is in surplus, Adjustments are made to the compensation categories for financial assets: amortised the surplus recognised is limited to the present expense to reflect actual and expected cost, fair value through other comprehensive value of any amounts that the Group expects forfeitures due to failure to satisfy service income and fair value through the income to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in conditions or non-market performance statement.
The standard is effective for future contributions.
accounting periods beginning on or after The defined benefit cost recognised in the Generally, the resulting compensation expense 1 January 2018.
Early adoption is permitted is recognised in the income statement on income statement comprises the current subject to EU endorsement.
service cost, any past service cost and the a straight-line basis over the vesting period b IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with and a corresponding credit is recognised in net interest on the deficit or surplus.
Gains customers or losses on curtailments or settlements of equity.
In the event of the cancellation of an IFRS 15 deals with revenue recognition and award, whether by the Group or a participating the plans are also recognised in the income establishes principles for reporting useful statement in the period in which the employee, the compensation expense information to users of financial statements that would have been recognised over the curtailment or settlement occurs.
about the nature, amount, timing and remainder of the vesting period is recognised Remeasurements of the deficit or surplus are uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising immediately in the income statement.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer Dividends Current service cost represents the increase Dividends on the Companys ordinary obtains control of a good or service and in the present value of the benefit obligation thus has the ability to direct the use and shares are recognised when they have been due to benefits accrued during the period, less appropriately authorised and are no longer at obtain the benefits from the good or service.
Past service cost The standard will replace IAS 18 Revenue the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim represents the change in the present value of dividends are recognised when they are paid and IAS 11 Construction contracts and the benefit obligation that arises from benefit related interpretations.
The IASB is and final dividends are recognised when they changes that are applied retrospectively to are declared following approval by considering deferring the adoption until benefits accrued in previous years.
Any past at least 1 January 2018. shareholders at the Companys AGM.
service cost is recognised in full in the period Dividends are recognised as an appropriation in which the benefit changes are made.
c IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: of shareholdersequity.
Employee Contributions Amendments Net interest on the deficit or surplus is The Amendments clarify how employee Own shares calculated by applying the discount rate that contributions that are linked to service should Own shares represent the Companys ordinary is used in measuring the present value of be attributed to periods of service and when shares that are held by the Company in treasury the benefit obligation to the deficit or surplus.
such contributions may be treated as a or by a sponsored Employee Benefit Trust that Plan administration costs incurred by the reduction in the service cost that is recognised are used to satisfy awards made under the Group are also recognised in the income in the income statement.
Subject to its Companys share-based incentive plans.
endorsement for use in the EU, the Group own shares are acquired, the cost of purchase will adopt the Amendments with effect from in the market is deducted from equity.
Gains Remeasurements comprise differences 1 April 2015. or losses on the subsequent transfer or sale between the actual return on plan assets less of own shares are also recognised in equity.
asset management expenses and the interest on the plan assets and actuarial gains and Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies comprises the commodity contracts, inventory by the plans are deemed to be equivalent to the present value of the related benefit continued and contracts for the purchase and sale of corn and co-products, some elements of obligations.
Otherwise, the carrying amounts d Other pronouncements of the plan assets are affected more by market which are expected to mature in more than Various minor improvements to accounting 12 months time, and is measured at fair value risks, including interest rate risk, and other standards arising from the IASBs 2010-2012, risks than by assumptions made in estimating at each period-end date.
The valuation of the 2011-2013 and 2012-2014 review cycles.
corn book, which is underpinned by a number the fair values of unquoted assets.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of judgements, has a material impact on the Whilst changes in the assumptions used in of the Standards listed above will have a reported results of the Group.
determining the present value of the benefit material impact on the financial statements At 31 March 2015, the Group recognised obligations will have an impact on the Groups of the Group in future periods, except that derivative assets of 92 million including income statement through their effect on the IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and commodity pricing contracts of 58 million service cost and the net interest on the deficit disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 and derivative liabilities of 40 million including or surplus in the plans, most of the impact may have an impact on revenue recognition commodity pricing contracts of 25 million.
of such changes, together with fluctuations and related disclosures.
Beyond the information The fair value of derivatives continually in the actual return on the plan assets, will be above, it is not practical to provide a reasonable changes in response to changes in prevailing reflected in other comprehensive income.
estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 market conditions affecting future corn and until a detailed review has been completed.
Full details of the assumptions made, which other commodity prices, currency exchange are based on advice from the Groups 3 Critical accounting estimates rates and interest rates.
Where practicable, actuaries, are set out in Note 29. and judgements the Group uses hedge accounting to mitigate In order to prepare these consolidated financial the impact of changes in the fair value of its Impairment of assets statements in accordance with the accounting hedging instruments on the income statement, Asset impairments have the potential to policies set out in Note 2, management has but the Groups results may be affected by significantly impact operating profit.
In order used estimates and judgements to establish these fair value changes where hedge to determine whether impairments are the amounts at which certain items are accounting cannot be applied or due to hedge required the Group estimates the recoverable recorded.
Critical accounting estimates and ineffectiveness.
This calculation is usually judgements are those that have the greatest based on projecting future cash flows over a impact on the financial statements and require Retirement benefits five-year period and using a terminal value to the most difficult, subjective and complex The Group operates defined benefit pension incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
judgements about matters that are inherently plans principally in the UK and the US and A discount factor is applied to obtain a present uncertain.
Estimates are based on factors unfunded retirement medical plans in the US.
The fair value less costs including historical experience and Generally, a deficit or surplus is recognised of disposal of an asset is used if this results expectations of future events that management on each plan which represents the difference in an amount in excess of value in use.
However, given the between the present value of the benefit judgemental nature of such estimates, actual obligation and the fair value of the plan assets Estimated future cash flows for impairment results could be different from the assumptions any surplus may be restricted in certain calculations are based on managements used.
The critical accounting estimates and circumstances.
expectations of future volumes and margins based on plans and best estimates of the judgements are set out below.
At 31 March 2015, the present value of the productivity of the assets in their current benefit obligations on the plans was Taxation condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude 1,761 million 2014 1,525 million, including The Group operates in a large number of tax benefits from major expansion projects 69 million 2014 54 million in respect of jurisdictions around the world.
Tax regulations requiring future capital expenditure where the unfunded medical plans.
The present value generally are complex and in some jurisdictions that expenditure has not been approved of the benefit obligations is based on actuarial agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities on the dates the assets are tested.
estimates of the future benefits that will be can take several years.
Consequently, at the payable to the members of the plans.
As such, Future cash flows are discounted using a period-end date, tax liabilities and assets are the benefit obligations are based on a number discount rate based on the Groups weighted based on managements best estimate of the of assumptions, changes to which could have average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate future amounts that will be settled.
While the a material impact on the reported amounts.
for circumstances specific to the asset being Group aims to ensure that the estimates tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is recorded are accurate, the actual amounts With regard to the pension plans, the present impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity could be different from those expected.
value of the benefit obligations is most returns and market and country-related risks.
sensitive to the discount rate applied to the Deferred tax assets mainly arise from asset The Groups weighted average cost of capital benefit obligations, assumed life expectancies, impairments and retirement benefit obligations is reviewed on an annual basis.
and expected future price inflation rates.
At that the Group expects to recover at some 31 March 2015, a reduction in the discount rate If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions time in the future and by their nature the of 100 basis points would have increased the were to change because of market conditions, amounts recorded are therefore dependent on obligations by 304 million, an increase of one the level of impairment could be different managements judgement about future events.
year in life expectancy would have increased and could result in the asset impairment Further details are set out in Notes 10 and 28. the obligations by 74 million, and an increase being increased or reversed, in part or in full, in future price inflation of 50 basis points would at a future date.
Goodwill impairment is Derivatives and hedge accounting have increased the obligations by 78 million.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to At 31 March 2015, the assets held by the Sensitivities are performed around the commodity price, currency exchange rate and pension plans amounted to 1,534 million discount rate and operating profit growth interest rate movements.
2014 1,305 million, of which 367 million which are considered the critical assumptions 2014 346 million comprised qualifying in the review.
In particular, the Group uses corn and other insurance policies.
Plan assets are measured commodity contracts to manage and hedge Further details are set out in Notes 14 and 15. at their fair value at the period-end date.
The its corn book in the US.
The US corn book fair values of qualifying insurance policies held 96 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the period-end date and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Where appropriate, future cash outflows that are expected to arise over a number of years are discounted to a present value using a relevant discount rate.
At 31 March 2015, provisions included amounts for insurance claims payable by the Groups reinsurance company, legal matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Further details are set out in Note 30.
4 Segment information Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Board the designated Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Continuing operations comprise two operating segments: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Central, which comprises central costs including head office, treasury and re-insurance activities, does not meet the definition of an operating segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments but no sub-total is shown for the Groups operating segments in the tables below so as to be consistent with the presentation of segment information to the Board.
Both segments are served by a single manufacturing network, and receive services from a number of global support functions.
The segmental information presented in Note 4 and Note 8 reflects the allocation of assets and costs based on the most appropriate methodology in each case, consistently applied over time.
The Board uses adjusted operating profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before specific items that are considered to hinder comparison of the trading performance of the Groups businesses either year-on-year or with other businesses.
During the years presented, the items excluded from operating profit in arriving at adjusted operating profit were the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items.
The Group has presented segment and adjusted financial information on a proportionate consolidation basis, as this reflects the management of its joint ventures on an integrated basis with the Groups subsidiaries.
The segmental classification of exceptional items is defined in Note 6.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board but it does receive segmental analysis of net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
Accordingly, the amounts presented for segment assets and segment liabilities in the tables below represent those assets and liabilities that comprise elements of net working capital.
The segment results were as follows: a Segment sales Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Notes m m Sales Speciality Food Ingredients 908 983 Bulk Ingredients 1 786 2 164 Adjusted sales 2 694 3 147 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 338 393 Sales 2 356 2 754 b Segment results Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Operating profit Speciality Food Ingredients 149 213 Bulk Ingredients 133 172 Central 35 36 Adjusted operating profit 247 349 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 63 74 184 275 Adjusting items: Exceptional items 6 142 14 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14 9 10 Operating profit 33 251 Finance income 9 1 2 Finance expense 9 32 37 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 16 49 61 Profit before tax 51 277 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Segment information continued Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Percentage Percentage Adjusted operating margin Speciality Food Ingredients 16.4% 21.7% Bulk Ingredients 7.4% 7.9% Central n a n a Total 9.2% 11.1% c Segment assets liabilities At 31 March 2015 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 306 132 174 Bulk Ingredients 408 199 209 Central 48 37 11 Total working capital 762 368 394 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 107 39 68 Group working capital 655 329 326 Other assets liabilities 1 768 1 158 610 Group assets liabilities 2 423 1 487 936 Restated At 31 March 2014 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 242 94 148 Bulk Ingredients 447 181 266 Central 44 42 2 Total working capital 733 317 416 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 96 32 64 Group working capital 637 285 352 Other assets liabilities 1 831 1 133 698 Group assets liabilities 2 468 1 418 1 050 d Other information Depreciation Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Notes m m Depreciation Speciality Food Ingredients 40 38 Bulk Ingredients 56 55 Central 2 4 Adjusted depreciation 98 97 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 16 13 14 Total 15 85 83 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
98 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 4 Segment information continued e Other information Amortisation Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Notes m m Amortisation Speciality Food Ingredients 20 18 Bulk Ingredients 3 2 Central 1 1 Adjusted amortisation 24 21 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 16 1 Total 14 24 20 f Other information Share-based payments Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Notes m m Share-based payments Speciality Food Ingredients 1 2 Bulk Ingredients 1 Central 1 5 Adjusted share based payments 8 Elimination of proportionate consolidation - Total 25 8 g Other information Capital investment Capital investment comprises the cost of acquisition of businesses and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including amounts accrued and investments.
Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Capital investment Speciality Food Ingredients 105 88 Bulk Ingredients 84 66 Central 17 35 Adjusted capital investment 206 189 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 11 11 Total 195 178 h Geographical information Sales by destination Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Sales by destination United Kingdom 41 64 United States 1 617 1 858 Other European countries 367 520 Rest of the world 669 705 Adjusted sales by destination 2 694 3 147 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 338 393 Total 2 356 2 754 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Segment information continued i Geographical information Sales by origin Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Sales by origin United Kingdom 21 22 United States 1 934 2 282 Other European countries 462 546 Rest of the world 277 297 Adjusted sales by origin 2 694 3 147 Elimination of proportionate consolidation 338 393 Total 2 356 2 754 Concentration of revenue During the financial year 2015, one customer contributed 11% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations 2014 restated one customer contributed 12%.
j Geographical information location of non-current assets The United Kingdom is the home country of the Parent Company.
Non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefits in the principal territories are as follows: Restated Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 31 25 United States 874 734 Other European countries 426 433 Rest of the world 88 159 Non-current assets 1 419 1 351 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
100 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 5 Operating profit Analysis of operating expenses income by nature: Restated Year ended Year ended 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Continuing Continuing operations operations Notes m m External sales 4 2 356 2 754 Operating expenses income Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 1 319 1 724 Staff costs of which 127 million 2014 121 million was included in cost of sales 8 225 232 Gain on settlement of defined benefit pension plan 29 4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets of which 77 million 2014 77 million was included in cost of sales 15 82 78 leased assets included in cost of sales 15 3 5 Exceptional items 6 142 14 Amortisation of intangible assets: acquired intangible assets 14 9 10 other intangible assets 14 15 10 Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 18 17 Research and development expenditure 32 33 Decrease in allowance for doubtful debts 22 1 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 Other operating expenses 478 388 Total operating expenses 2 323 2 503 Operating profit 33 251 6 Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 m m Continuing operations Business transformation costs a 12 14 Business re-alignment impairment and related costs b 118 Termination of distribution rights agreement c 12 Total 142 14 Continuing operations a D uring the year, the Group completed the implementation of a common global IS IT system, and recognised costs of 12 million 2014 14 million which did not meet the criteria to be capitalised.
These costs are classified within Central costs in each of the above disclosed periods.
During the year, in total we incurred 22 million of costs associated with the implementation of the common global IS IT system.
This brings total expenditure on the project to 146 million, including 5 million of hardware, software and associated costs.
b A s part of the major business re-alignment announced on 21 April 2015, the Group announced its intention to consolidate all SPLENDA Sucralose production into our facility in the US, and close the Singapore facility which will not be cost competitive going forward.
The Group recognised an impairment charge of 113 million within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment, comprising a full impairment of the property, plant and equipment 108 million and associated intangible assets 5 million.
In addition the Group incurred 5 million of one-off costs associated with the business re-alignment primarily consultancy and redundancy costs which were classified as Central costs.
c T he Group made a payment of 12 million in December 2014 to terminate distribution rights previously awarded to a third party to sell our crystalline fructose principally in Asia Pacific.
The expense was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredient segment.
The tax impact on exceptional items was a 8 million credit 2014 9 million credit.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
Discontinued operations The Group did not recognise any exceptional items in respect of discontinued operations during the year to 31 March 2015.
During the year to 31 March 2014, the Group recognised an exceptional tax credit of 28 million in discontinued operations see Note 11 following the favourable resolution of outstanding tax matters associated with the starch facilities which formed part of the Groups former Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe segment.
Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.2 1.2 audit-related services 0.1 1 other non-audit services 0.2 2.2 1.9 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Total 2.3 2.0 1 Non-audit services related primarily to a project to identify potential cost savings in US logistics activities.
The audit and non-audit fees related to joint ventures payable to  LLP and its associates, excluded from the table above, were 0.1 million 2014 0.1 million and nil 2014 0.1 million respectively.
8 Staff costs Staff costs were as follows: Restated Year ended Year ended 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Continuing Continuing operations operations Notes m m Wages and salaries 199 197 Social security costs 18 17 Other pension costs: defined benefit pension schemes 29 4 5 defined contribution pension schemes 29 5 3 Retirement medical benefits 29 1 2 Share-based payments 25 8 Total 225 232 The monthly average number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is set out below.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, this includes part-time employees: Year ended 31 March Restated By operating segment 2015 2014 Continuing operations Speciality Food Ingredients 2 017 1 795 Bulk Ingredients 1 633 1 619 Central 414 432 4 064 3 846 Discontinued operations Total 4 064 3 846 At 31 March 2015, the Group employed 4,136 31 March 2014 3,899 people, all in continuing operations.
Following the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, the staff numbers presented above exclude employees of the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Employee numbers are presented to management on a proportionate consolidation basis including employees from the Groups joint ventures as this better reflects the management of joint ventures on an integrated basis with the Groups subsidiaries.
When including those additional employees, at 31 March 2015 the Group employed 4,759 31 March 2014 4,523 people, all in continuing operations.
Central includes shared service employees who perform activities for the whole Group, including the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredientssegments.
102 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 8 Staff costs continued Key management compensation Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 6 5 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 4 Total 7 10 Key management is represented by the Group Executive Committee and the Companys directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 78.
Members of the Group Executive Committee are identified on page 13.
As determined in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the aggregate gains made by the directors on the exercise of share options were 5 million 2014 4 million.
9 Finance income and finance expense Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Notes m m Finance income Interest receivable 1 2 Total finance income 1 2 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 23 28 Fair value hedges: fair value loss on interest rate derivatives 19 3 20 fair value adjustment of hedged borrowings 19 3 20 Finance lease interest 1 1 Net retirement benefit interest 29 8 8 Total finance expense 32 37 Net finance expense 31 35 Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs of 1 million 2014 2 million capitalised within intangible assets at a capitalisation rate of 3.4% 2014 3.9%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2014 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Finance income and finance expense relate wholly to continuing operations.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10 Income tax expense Analysis of charge for the year Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Continuing operations Note m m Current tax: In respect of current period United Kingdom UK Overseas 15 27 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2 13 27 Deferred tax: 28 Charge for the year 8 10 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5 Income tax expense 21 32 Profit for the year from continuing operations reflected an income tax expense of 21 million 2014 expense of 32 million, including an income tax credit of 8 million 2014 credit of 9 million in respect of exceptional items see Note 6.
Adjustments to current tax in respect of previous years for the year ended 31 March 2015 totalled 2 million 2014 nil reflecting non-recurring tax credits relating to prior years in several European jurisdictions.
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years totalled nil 2014 credit of 5 million.
The amount recognised in the prior year reflects non-recurring tax credits in relation to prior years in the US, following a detailed review of underlying tax information.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK reduced from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 51 277 Less share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 49 61 Parent Company and subsidiaries profit before tax 2 216 Corporation tax charge thereon at 21% 2014 23% 50 Adjusted for the effects of: items not taxable 23 2 losses not recognised 11 3 adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 2 5 different tax rates applied on overseas earnings 11 18 Total 21 32 The Groups adjusted effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and losses and reflects a combination of higher tax rates in certain jurisdictions such as the US, nil effective tax rates in the UK due to brought forward tax losses and in Singapore due to having pioneer status awarded by the government in 2008 and rates that lie somewhere in between, for example, in certain eastern European countries.
Our tax rate is favourably affected by our internal financing which involves borrowing by our US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable in the US.
The Groups adjusted effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the adjusted income tax expense of 48 million 2014 60 million as a proportion of adjusted profit before tax of 224 million 2014 322 million was 21.2% 2014 18.5%.
104 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 10 Income tax expense continued Discontinued operations Profit for the prior year from discontinued operations reflected an exceptional income tax credit of 28 million as explained in Note 11.
Tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 Note m m Retirement benefit obligations 20 22 Cash flow hedges 2 Tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 22 22 Deferred tax 28 22 22 Tax on items recognised directly in equity Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Current tax credit on share-based payments 1 Deferred tax charge on share-based payments 1 Total 11 Discontinued operations The Group did not recognise any operations as being discontinued during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Continuing operations include the results of Eaststarch which is not treated as a discontinued operation for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group recognised a non-cash exceptional income tax credit of 28 million following the favourable resolution of outstanding tax matters associated with the starch facilities which formed part of the Groups former Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe segment.
Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 Note m m Operating profit Profit before tax Income tax credit 28 Profit for the year 28 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the Company 28 12 Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding an average of 4 million shares 2014 4 million shares held by the Company or the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit attributable to owners of the Company million 30 30 245 28 273 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 464.2 464.2 464.2 464.1 464.1 464.1 Basic earnings per share 6.6p 6.6p 52.8p 6.0p 58.8p Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares arise from awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Where the vesting of these awards is contingent on satisfying a service or performance condition, the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is calculated based on the status of the condition at the end of the period.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares are actually dilutive only when the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the period exceeds their exercise price options or issue price other awards.
The greater any such excess, the greater the dilutive effect.
The average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 640p 2014 788p.
The dilutive effect of share-based incentives was 3.8 million shares 2014 6.4 million shares.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12 Earnings per share continued Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Profit attributable to owners of the Company million 30 30 245 28 273 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares millions 468.0 468.0 468.0 470.5 470.5 470.5 Diluted earnings per share 6.5p 6.5p 52.1p 5.9p 58.0p Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share measures are calculated based on profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the Company before adjusting items as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Continuing operations Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the Company 30 245 Adjusting items: exceptional items 6 142 14 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 14 9 10 net retirement benefit interest 9,29 8 8 tax effect of the above adjustments 13 15 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 41 176 262 Adjusted basic earnings per share 38.0p 56.5p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 37.7p 55.7p 13 Dividends on ordinary shares Dividends on ordinary shares in respect of the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 pence pence Per ordinary share: interim dividend paid 8.2 7.8 final dividend proposed 19.8 19.8 Total dividend 28.0 27.6 The Directors propose a final dividend for the financial year of 19.8p per ordinary share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 31 July 2015 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 3 July 2015.
Dividends on ordinary shares paid in the year: Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 m m Final dividend paid relating to the prior year 92 88 Interim dividend paid relating to the year 38 36 Total dividend paid 130 124 Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 March 2015 and the proposed amount, the final dividend for the financial year is expected to amount to 92 million.
106 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 14 Goodwill and other intangible assets Patents and other Other acquired Other intellectual intangible Total acquired intangible Goodwill property assets intangible assets assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2014 Restated 133 39 114 286 165 451 Subsidiaries acquired 27 27 27 Additions at cost 34 34 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 2 1 7 8 5 3 At 31 March 2015 158 40 107 305 203 508 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2014 Restated 31 72 103 41 144 Impairment charge 5 5 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Amortisation charge 2 7 9 15 24 Currency translation differences 3 3 1 4 At 31 March 2015 33 76 109 59 168 Net book value at 31 March 2015 158 7 31 196 144 340 Cost At 1 April 2013 Restated 132 34 119 285 114 399 Subsidiaries acquired 10 5 15 15 Additions at cost 57 57 Currency translation differences 9 5 14 6 20 At 31 March 2014 Restated 133 39 114 286 165 451 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2013 Restated 28 68 96 33 129 Amortisation charge 3 7 10 10 20 Currency translation differences 3 3 2 5 At 31 March 2014 Restated 31 72 103 41 144 Net book value at 31 March 2014 Restated 133 8 42 183 124 307 a Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Allocated by geographical area United States 62 55 Allocated by business segment Speciality Food Ingredients 95 77 Bulk Ingredients 1 1 96 78 Total 158 133 i Impairment tests carried out during the year Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment at the level of the cash-generating unit CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
Tate & Lyle is principally managed as an integrated network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants servicing both the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
Goodwill is therefore tested for impairment on a geographical basis, except where it can be allocated to a specific CGU or group of CGUs.
A description of the impairment tests conducted in relation to the most significant goodwill amounts are set out on the following page.
In each case, the recoverable amount was calculated based on value in use.
Value in use was calculated based on budgets and plans covering the next five years that have been reviewed by the Board.
Cash flows were projected during the five-year period based on budgeted operating profit and managements expectations of market developments.
Beyond the five-year plan, cash flows were generally assumed to grow at the long-term growth rate for the relevant geographical markets based on forecasts included in industry reports.
Cash flows were discounted using pre-tax rates that are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect differences between the risk profile of the geographical areas or CGUs concerned and that of the Group as a whole.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill allocated by geographical area United States Goodwill allocated to the US single ingredients operations of 62 million 2014 55 million relates to the Staley acquisition in 1988.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2016, which includes mid-single digit volume growth in Speciality Food Ingredients and flat volumes in Bulk Ingredients.
From 2017 onwards, volumes are projected to grow broadly in line with 2016 expectations, and operating profit is assumed to increase by 3% for Speciality Food Ingredients and 1% for Bulk Ingredients thereafter, based on managements long term industry expectations.
Cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 10.0% 2014 10.1%.
Significant headroom exists and management concluded that no impairment is required.
Goodwill allocated by operating segment Speciality Food Ingredients Goodwill allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 53 million 2014 61 million that relates to the European Food Systems acquisitions of G. C. Hahn and Company in June 2007 and that of Cesalpinia Foods in December 2005.
As these businesses are operationally integrated, they are tested for impairment as one CGU.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2016, with mid-single digit operating profit growth assumed over a five year period.
Management concluded that no impairment is required.
The only other CGU within the Speciality Food Ingredients operating segment with individually material goodwill is the Brazilian Food Systems business Gemacom, which contains provisional goodwill of 24 million see Note 36.
Cash flows in 2016 are based on the Annual Operating Plan approved by the Board.
Cash flows are then expected to grow at a compound annual rate of around 40% over the subsequent four years, and at 5% thereafter reflecting the long-term growth rate for this market.
Cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 16.7% 2014 N A.
The value in use of this CGU exceeds its carrying value, and management concluded that no impairment is required.
There are no other individually material elements of goodwill allocated to either the Speciality Food Ingredients or Bulk Ingredients operating segments.
ii Possibility of impairment in the near future Management considers that there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include capitalised development costs with a carrying amount of 72 million net of impairment and amortisation 2014 77 million relating to the common global IS IT platform.
During the year, the system was successfully deployed across our US operations having previously been deployed in our European Single Ingredient operations.
As part of the major business re-alignment, the Group recognised a 5 million impairment charge relating to these assets in our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in Singapore.
The charge was recognised as an exceptional item see Note 6.
15 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and course of buildings machinery construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2014 Restated 390 1 757 58 2 205 Additions at cost 8 125 133 Subsidiaries acquired 9 3 12 Transfer on completion 7 52 59 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 36 158 194 At 31 March 2015 442 1 977 124 2 543 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2014 Restated 195 1 278 1 473 Depreciation charge 11 74 85 Impairment charge 19 64 25 108 Disposals and write offs 1 1 Currency translation differences 20 108 128 At 31 March 2015 245 1 523 25 1 793 Net book value at 31 March 2015 197 454 99 750 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
108 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 15 Property, plant and equipment continued Assets in the Land and Plant and course of buildings machinery construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2013 Restated 432 1 849 57 2 338 Additions at cost 16 4 82 102 Subsidiaries acquired 1 2 3 Transfers on completion 9 72 81 Disposals and write-offs 31 5 36 Currency translation differences 37 165 202 At 31 March 2014 Restated 390 1 757 58 2 205 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2013 Restated 203 1 323 1 526 Depreciation charge 10 73 83 Disposals and write-offs 2 4 6 Currency translation differences 16 114 130 At 31 March 2014 Restated 195 1 278 1 473 Net book value at 31 March 2014 Restated 195 479 58 732 In December 2013, the Group completed the back-to-back purchase, sale and leaseback under an operating lease of its building at the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
The transaction generated a one-off gain of 6 million in the 2014 financial year, which comprised a gain of 3 million on the recognition of the remainder of the lease incentive on the original lease and a gain of 3 million on the sale of the property.
The majority of the gain was included in the results of the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
Impairment reviews As part of the major business re-alignment the Group recognised a 108 million impairment charge relating to the property, plant and equipment in our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in Singapore.
Management conducted impairment reviews of other property, plant and equipment during the year and concluded that there was no further impairment.
Leased assets Property, plant and equipment includes plant and machinery held under finance leases with a net book value of 10 million 2014 15 million.
16 Investments in associates and joint ventures The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated income statement are as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Associates Joint ventures 49 61 The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Associates 4 4 Joint ventures 323 308 Associates The Groups principal associate, which is accounted for under the equity method, is Tapioca Development Corporation see Note 40.
The associate has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
Tapioca Development Corporation is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
In the opinion of the Directors this associate is not considered to be material to the Group and there are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the associate.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued The amounts equity accounted in a the Group consolidated income statement: and b the Group consolidated statement of financial position are summarised below: Associates m At 31 March 2014 Restated 4 Exchange and other movements At 31 March 2015 4 Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 a Income statement m m Sales 4 4 Expenses 4 4 Profit before and after tax At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 b Statement of financial position m m Assets 7 10 Liabilities 3 6 Net assets 4 4 Joint ventures In the opinion of the directors, the Groups material joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, are Eaststarch C. V. TM Eaststarch, Almidones Mexicanos SA Almex and DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Bio-PDO see Note 40.
The joint ventures listed above have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and its joint venture partners and are private companies.
No quoted market price is available for their shares.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
There are guarantees in respect of banking facilities of Eaststarch totalling 8 million 2014 9 million.
The movements in the carrying value of the Groups investment in joint ventures are summarised as follows: Investment in Joint ventures m At 1 April 2014 308 Profit for the year 49 Other comprehensive expense 18 Dividends 16 At 31 March 2015 323 m At 1 April 2013 377 Profit for the year 61 Other comprehensive expense 25 Dividends 105 At 31 March 2014 308 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
110 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material joint venture accounted for using the equity method.
The information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint ventures and not the Groups share of those amounts adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint ventures to make it consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
Year ended 31 March 2015 TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Income Statement m m m m m Sales 266 434 60 760 Depreciation and amortisation 18 2 6 26 Finance income 1 1 Finance expense Other expense 165 400 44 609 Profit before tax 84 32 10 126 Income tax expense 18 10 28 Profit for the year from continuing operations 66 22 10 98 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets and liabilities 39 4 7 36 Other comprehensive expense related to goodwill Total comprehensive income 27 18 17 62 Dividends 28 4 32 Year ended 31 March 2014 TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Income Statement m m m m m Sales 319 500 61 880 Depreciation and amortisation 22 2 6 30 Finance income 1 1 Finance expense 1 1 Other expense 190 462 50 702 Profit before tax 108 35 5 148 Income tax expense 16 10 26 Profit for the year from continuing operations 92 25 5 122 Other comprehensive expense related to assets and liabilities 25 16 3 44 Other comprehensive expense related to goodwill 3 3 Total comprehensive income 64 9 2 75 Dividends 181 29 210 At 31 March 2015 TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Statement of financial position m m m m m Assets Non-current assets 156 38 54 1 249 Cash and cash equivalents 146 2 15 163 Other current assets 88 164 11 1 264 390 204 80 2 676 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 10 7 17 Current borrowings 8 54 62 Other current liabilities 38 63 15 116 56 124 15 195 Net assets 334 80 65 2 481 Excludes investment of joint venture holding companies.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued At 31 March 2014 TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Statement of financial position m m m m m Assets Non-current assets 180 44 52 2 278 Cash and cash equivalents 107 11 12 3 133 Other current assets 113 109 7 1 230 400 164 71 6 641 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 11 3 14 Current borrowings 33 20 16 69 Other current liabilities 49 51 7 107 93 74 23 190 Net assets 307 90 48 6 451 Excludes investment of joint venture holding companies.
Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Groups interest in joint ventures.
TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Reconciliation of summarised financial information m m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2014 307 90 48 6 451 Profit for the year 66 22 10 98 Other comprehensive expense income related to assets and liabilities excluding goodwill 39 4 7 36 Dividends 28 4 32 Closing net assets at 31 March 2015 334 80 65 2 481 Interest in Joint venture % 50% 50% 50% 50% Interest in Joint venture at share 167 40 33 1 241 Goodwill at 1 April 2014 82 82 Other comprehensive expense related to goodwill Goodwill at 31 March 2015 82 82 Carrying value 249 40 33 1 323 TM Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total Reconciliation of summarised financial information m m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2013 421 110 46 6 583 Profit for the year 92 25 5 122 Other comprehensive expense related to assets and liabilities excluding goodwill 25 16 3 44 Dividends 181 29 210 Closing net assets at 31 March 2014 307 90 48 6 451 Interest in Joint venture % 50% 50% 50% 50% Interest in Joint venture at share 154 45 24 3 226 Goodwill at 1 April 2013 85 85 Other comprehensive expense related to goodwill 3 3 Goodwill at 31 March 2014 82 82 Carrying value 236 45 24 3 308 112 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 17 Available-for-sale financial assets and other financial assets m At 1 April 2013 includes 1 million classified as held for sale 28 Additions 4 Disposals 2 Currency translation differences 2 At 31 March 2014 28 Additions 2 Disposals 2 Fair value gain in other comprehensive income 2 Fair value loss in operating profit 2 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2015 31 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2015 2014 m m Current assets 16 Non-current assets 15 28 Total 31 28 Available-for-sale financial assets comprise 31 million 2014 28 million of unlisted securities.
The fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are approximated at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
The carrying value of the available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2015 2014 m m US dollar 20 23 Sterling 11 5 Total 31 28 The Group also paid 2 million 2014 nil into an escrow account to which the Group has restricted access, as part of the acquisition of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd see Note 36.
The amount is presented as Other financial assets on the statement of financial position.
18 Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014.
At 31 March 2015 Availablefor-sale Derivatives and other Total Amortised in a hedging Held for financial carrying cost cash relationship trading assets value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 17 31 31 31 Other financial assets 17 2 2 2 Trade and other receivables 22 281 281 281 Cash and cash equivalents 32 195 195 195 Derivative financial instruments assets 19 34 58 92 92 Borrowings 27 768 768 792 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 19 20 20 40 40 Trade and other payables 26 327 327 327 Total 619 14 38 33 534 558 Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments by category continued Restated At 31 March 2014 Amortised Derivatives Total cost cash in a hedging Held for Availablecarrying cost relationship trading for-sale value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 17 28 28 28 Trade and other receivables 22 252 252 252 Cash and cash equivalents 32 346 346 346 Derivative financial instruments assets 19 35 66 101 101 Borrowings 27 760 760 794 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 19 5 46 51 51 Trade and other payables 26 283 283 283 Total 445 30 20 28 367 401 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 11 million 2014 13 million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 2 million 2014 2 million relating to social security.
Included in borrowings are items in a hedging relationship which are held at amortised cost, with a fair value adjustment applied, as these items are held in a fair value hedge.
Fair value hierarchy Set out on page 115 is how the Groups financial instruments measured at fair value, fit within the following fair value hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly Level 2 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data Level 3.
The following tables illustrate the Groups net financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014: At 31 March 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 17 31 31 Other financial assets 17 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 19 9 9 interest rate swaps 19 24 24 forward foreign exchange contracts 19 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 19 2 19 37 58 Assets at fair value 4 53 68 125 Liabilities at fair value Other financial liability within other payables 36 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 19 15 15 interest rate swaps 19 commodity pricing contracts 19 12 7 6 25 Liabilities at fair value 12 22 8 42 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
114 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 18 Financial instruments by category continued Restated At 31 March 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 17 28 28 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 19 3 3 interest rate swaps 19 33 33 forward foreign exchange contracts 19 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 19 9 13 42 64 Assets at fair value 9 50 70 129 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 19 2 2 interest rate swaps 19 5 5 commodity pricing contracts 19 13 10 21 44 Liabilities at fair value 13 17 21 51 Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets commodity futures is based on quoted market prices at the period-end date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, commodity pricing contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts is calculated as the present value of the future cash flows based on observable inputs drawn from interest yield curves sourced from a reputable third-party source.
Level 3 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments is based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity at the statement of financial position date.
These inputs generally reflect the entitys own assumptions about how a market participant would reasonably be expected to determine the price of a financial instrument.
For commodity pricing contracts, in evaluating the significance of fair value inputs, the Group generally classifies assets or liabilities as Level 3 when their fair value is determined using unobservable inputs that individually, or when aggregated with other unobservable inputs, represent more than 10% of the fair value of the observable inputs of the assets or liabilities.
An explanation of the key inputs used in calculating the fair value of these contracts is set out in Note 3 under the heading Derivatives and hedge accounting.
Available-for-sale financial assets which are analysed at Level 3 primarily represent investments in unlisted securities.
The fair values of the unlisted securities are principally approximated at cost.
Values are adjusted for permanent impairments and fair value movements as disclosed in Note 17.
For financial instruments in Level 3, the Group does not consider that changes to inputs to reasonable alternatives would have a material impact on the income statement or equity.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments by category continued The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups net financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity Commodity pricing pricing AvailableOther contracts contracts for-sale financial assets liabilities assets liability Total m m m m m At 1 April 2013 Restated 53 21 27 59 Total gains losses : in operating profit 42 21 21 in other comprehensive income 2 2 Purchases 4 4 Settlements 53 21 1 33 At 31 March 2014 Restated 42 21 28 49 Total gains losses : in operating profit 37 6 2 29 in other comprehensive income 5 5 Purchases 2 2 Settlements 42 21 2 23 At 31 March 2015 37 6 31 2 60 19 Derivative financial instruments Restated At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps: net investment hedges 9 15 3 2 Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 21 20 30 15 23 2 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Interest rate swaps: 3 accrued interest 6 2 fair value hedges 4 held for trading 3 3 3 13 5 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile 33 15 36 7 Other current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges 1 1 Commodity pricing contracts: cash flow hedges 5 1 1 held for trading 58 20 63 43 59 25 65 44 Total other derivative financial instruments 59 25 65 44 Total derivative financial instruments 92 40 101 51 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 30 15 23 2 Current derivative financial instruments 62 25 78 49 92 40 101 51 The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from cash flow hedges amounts to nil 2014 nil.
The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from net investment hedges amounts to nil 2014 nil.
The ineffective portion recognised in net finance expense that arises from fair value hedges amounts to nil 2014 nil.
116 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 19 Derivative financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m US dollar 29 71 Singapore dollar 20 49 Brazilian real 7 25 Euro 4 2 Other 3 3 Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity Note 24 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts at 31 March 2015 are expected to be reclassified to the income statement at various dates until December 2016.
Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2015 were 204 million 2014 345 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the US and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2015 were 154 million 2014 147 million.
Within net investment hedging gains losses, a fair value loss of 7 million 2014 12 million gain on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the period-end date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 24.
In addition, at 31 March 2015, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 373 million 2014 456 million are designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Debt-related derivatives held for trading Some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2015 were nil 2014 210 million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities which are undertaken for the purposes of supporting underlying operations.
20 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial Officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the US and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within the corn pricing areas.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial risk factors continued Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US and Europe, by borrowing principally in US dollars and euro, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages some of its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts and borrowings.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 504 million 2014 353 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 105% 2014 112%, euro net deposits 1% 2014 net deposits 2%, net borrowing of pounds sterling 1% 2014 net deposits 9% and other currencies net deposits 5% 2014 net deposits 1%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 18: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 1 47 37 Sterling euro 10% change 3 5 3 6 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt is fixed for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2015, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2014 November 2019.
The proportion of net debt at 31 March 2015 excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 31% 2014 40%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2015 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2015 if interest rates increase by 100 basis points, Groups profit before tax will decrease by 3 million 2014 no impact.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will increase by 2 million 2014 1 million increase.
Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and related co-products and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as at 31 March to the price movement of commodities: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 50% change 1 1 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
118 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 20 Financial risk factors continued The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Analysis of amounts set off The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Groups statement of financial position are set out below.
Amounts not offset but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also shown.
Gross financial Gross financial Net financial Related assets liabilities assets amounts not liabilities assets set off liabilities set off Net At 31 March 2015 Notes m m m m m Trade and other receivables 18 281 281 281 Derivative financial assets 19 92 92 15 77 Cash and cash equivalents 32 195 195 195 Total 568 568 15 553 Trade and other payables 18 327 327 327 Derivative financial liabilities 19 40 40 15 25 Bank loans and overdrafts 27 768 768 768 Total 1 135 1 135 15 1 120 Gross financial Gross financial Net financial Related assets liabilities assets amounts not liabilities assets set off liabilities set off Net At 31 March 2014 Restated Notes m m m m m Trade and other receivables 18 252 252 252 Derivative financial assets 19 101 101 5 96 Cash and cash equivalents 32 346 346 346 Total 699 699 5 694 Trade and other payables 18 283 283 283 Derivative financial liabilities 19 51 51 5 46 Bank loans and overdrafts 27 760 760 760 Total 1 094 1 094 5 1 089 Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Analysis of maximum credit exposure Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end date is as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Notes m m Cash and cash equivalents 32 195 346 Trade and other receivables 22 281 252 Derivative financial instruments assets 19 92 101 Other financial assets 17 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 17 31 28 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups having a number of key quality customers and a customer base which is large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2015 include the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in June 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in November 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million which was renewed in July 2014 and matures in July 2019.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
The Group intends to refinance the core committed bank facility no later than 12 months prior to the facilitys maturity in July 2019.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% has a maturity of more than 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2015, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within 12 months 2014 none and 24% maturing within two and a half years 2014 29%.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 4.2 years 2014 3.9 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 195 million 2014 346 million and had committed facilities of 539 million 2014 480 million of which 539 million 2014 480 million was undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
At 31 March 2015 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 307 385 57 Interest on borrowings 25 60 1 Trade and other payables 316 13 Derivative contracts: receipts 67 217 payments 60 206 Commodity contracts 8 Restated At 31 March 2014 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 321 164 255 Interest on borrowings 38 69 14 Trade and other payables 283 2 Derivative contracts: receipts 99 244 payments 86 226 Commodity contracts 10 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these shares is included in the less than one year category.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cash flows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
120 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 20 Financial risk factors continued Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain the dividend policy: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans and to retain as a minimum an investment grade credit rating which enables consistent access to debt capital markets.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings, and it is the Groups policy to keep them informed of all major developments.
At 31 March 2015, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa2 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB stable outlook.
The Group is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: At 31 March 2015 2014 Note m m Net debt including share of net cash of joint ventures 33 504 353 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 935 1 049 Total capital 1 439 1 402 The Board has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed two times and interest cover should exceed five times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs for the financial years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 are: Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 times times Net debt EBITDA 1.3 0.8 Interest cover 10.7 11.6 21 Inventories At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 172 218 Work in progress 22 19 Finished goods 169 135 Total 363 372 Finished goods inventories of 5 million 2014 4 million are carried at realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Inventories of 96 million 2014 150 million are carried at market value.
During the year to 31 March 2015, the Group did not recognise a net impairment charge against inventories 2014 nil.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22 Trade and other receivables At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Non-current trade and other receivables Other receivables 2 Total 2 At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables 256 239 Less: allowance for doubtful debts 8 8 Trade receivables net 248 231 Prepayments and accrued income 11 13 Margin deposits 7 6 Other receivables 24 15 Total 290 265 The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables were denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m US dollar 177 143 Euro 70 64 Sterling 13 11 Other 32 47 Total 292 265 Allowance for doubtful debts Trade receivables are subject to limited credit risk because the Group has a number of key customers of good credit quality and a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
Trade receivables are regularly reviewed for collectibility and an allowance has been established for doubtful debts against which trade receivables are written-off when they are no longer considered to be collectible.
Movements on the allowance for doubtful debts were as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m At 1 April 8 10 Net credit expense for the year Note 5 1 Currency translation differences 1 At 31 March 8 8 As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of 22 million 2014 18 million were past due but not impaired because they were considered to be collectible.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables was as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Up to 30 days past due 13 18 13 months past due 5 Over 3 months past due 4 Total 22 18 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing but interest may be charged to customers on overdue amounts.
122 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 23 Share capital and share premium Ordinary Share share capital premium Total m m m At 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Shares m Shares m At 1 April 468 202 883 117 468 192 900 117 Allotted under share option schemes 21 092 9 983 At 31 March 468 223 975 117 468 202 883 117 Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under share-based incentive arrangements see Note 25.
Own shares are held either by the Company in treasury or by an Employee Benefit Trust that was established by the Company.
Movements in own shares held were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Cost Cost Number m Number m At 1 April 4 706 429 37 4 413 175 29 Purchased in the market 2 025 551 12 3 545 000 29 Transferred to employees 1 713 348 12 3 251 746 21 At 31 March 5 018 632 37 4 706 429 37 During the year, 1,315,000 2014 3,045,000 shares were purchased into treasury at a cost of 8 million 2014 25 million and 710,551 2014 500,000 shares were purchased into the Employee Benefit Trust at a cost of 4 million 2014 4 million.
During the year, 1,628,492 2014 2,443,619 shares held in treasury and 84,856 2014 808,127 shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust were transferred to employees to satisfy vested share awards.
At 31 March 2015, 2,129,422 2014 2,442,914 shares were held in treasury with a market value of 13 million 2014 16 million and 2,889,210 2014 2,263,515 shares were held in the Employee Benefit Trust with a market value of 17 million 2014 15 million.
At 31 March 2015, own shares held represented 1.1% 2014 1.0% of the Companys called up share capital.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders At 31 March 2015 Number of Number of shares of 25p each holdings % Total % Up to 500 4 693 31.83% 1 228 327 0.26% 501 1 000 3 735 25.33% 2 922 371 0.63% 1 001 1 500 1 888 12.81% 2 358 680 0.50% 1 501 2 000 1 193 8.09% 2 144 189 0.46% 2 001 5 000 1 915 12.99% 5 905 692 1.26% 5 001 10 000 504 3.42% 3 513 836 0.75% 10 001 200 000 589 4.00% 29 139 092 6.22% 200 001 500 000 96 0.65% 31 191 604 6.66% Above 500 000 130 0.88% 389 820 184 83.26% Total 14 743 100.00% 468 223 975 100.00% Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24 Other reserves Currency Hedging translation Other reserve reserve reserves Total m m m m At 1 April 2013 2 40 97 139 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges: Fair value losses in the year 2 2 Currency translation differences: Loss on currency translation of foreign operations 104 104 Gain on net investment hedges 50 50 Share of other comprehensive expenses of joint ventures 1 26 25 At 31 March 2014 1 40 97 58 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges: Fair value losses in the year 5 5 Reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 2 2 Tax effect of the above movements 2 2 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 2 2 Currency translation differences: Gain on currency translation of foreign operations 56 56 Loss on net investment hedges 32 32 Share of other comprehensive expenses of joint ventures 18 18 At 31 March 2015 4 34 99 61 The adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements did not impact on the opening or closing balance of Other reserve for the 2014 financial year.
25 Share-based incentives The Company operates share-based incentive arrangements for the executive directors, senior executives and other eligible employees under which awards and options are granted over the Companys ordinary shares.
All of the arrangements under which awards and options were outstanding during the 2015 and 2014 financial years are classified as equity-settled.
During the year, the compensation expense recognised in profit or loss in respect of share-based incentives was nil million 2014 8 million.
Background Performance Share Plan The Groups principal ongoing share-based incentive arrangement is the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Participation in the PSP is restricted to the executive directors and other senior executives.
Awards made under the PSP normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and the Group achieves earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reaching specified levels over the performance period.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations reaching specified levels at the end of the performance period.
The performance period is the period of three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is granted.
During the 2015 and 2014 financial years, the Group recognised an expense in relation to share-based incentives that were awarded to the Chief Executive Officer in 2010 and 2011 that were subject to the same performance conditions that applied to awards made under the PSP in those years.
From 2012, the Chief Executive Officer has participated in the PSP.
Further information on the PSP is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 78.
Group Bonus Plan Deferred Element Bonuses earned under the Group Bonus Plan are normally paid in cash up to 100% of the base salary of the participating executive.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares that are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in the Groups employment.
During the vesting period, payments in lieu of dividends are made in relation to the deferred shares.
Further information on the Group Bonus Plan is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Sharesave Plan Options are granted from time to time under the Companys Sharesave Plan, which is open to all employees in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy shares in the Company after a period of three or five years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which they contribute on a monthly basis.
Executive Share Option Scheme Options are outstanding under the Companys legacy executive share option scheme.
The last grant of options was made under this scheme in 2004 and those options vested in 2007.
Restricted Share Awards The Company has made restricted share awards to a number of eligible employees.
Awards made normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and other conditions, specific to the individual awards are met.
Further information for these awards made in relation to executive directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58 to 78.
124 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 25 Share-based incentives continued Movements in the year Movements in the awards outstanding during the year were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Awards price Awards price Number Pence Number Pence Outstanding at 1 April 9 858 384 10p 10 838 115 10p Granted 3 946 005 17p 2 591 210 11p Exercised 1 734 440 24p 3 261 729 14p Lapsed 2 174 467 12p 309 212 20p Outstanding at 31 March 9 895 482 10p 9 858 384 10p Exercisable at 31 March 2 093 156 1 981 524 16p The weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the dates on which awards were exercised during the year was 670p 2014 817p.
Awards granted in the year During the year, PSP awards were granted over 2,878,550 shares 2014 2,548,235 shares, Restricted Share Awards were granted over 938,914 shares 2014 nil and Sharesave options were granted over 128,541 shares 2014 42,975 shares.
The compensation expense recognised in relation to these awards is based on the fair value of the awards at their respective grant dates.
The weighted average fair values of the awards granted during the year and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 PSP Sharesave PSP Sharesave Fair value at grant date 598p 127p 752p 198p Principal assumptions: Share price on grant date 660p 605p 817p 782p Expected life of the awards 3 years 3.3 5.3 years 3 years 3.3 5.3 years Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.95% 0.45% 0.9% Dividend yield on the Companys shares 4.2% 3.4% 3.5% 3.5% Volatility of the Companys shares n a 25% n a 30% The fair value of the awards was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, taking into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys shares over the expected life of the awards.
No deferred shares were issued under the Group Bonus Plan during this, or the prior year.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life of awards outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Weighted Weighted average average contractual contractual Awards life Awards life Exercise price Number Months Number Months Nil 9 705 477 49.3 9 638 499 48.2 200p to 399p 98 694 14.2 400p to 799p 190 005 38.7 121 191 34.5 Total 9 895 482 49.1 9 858 384 47.7 Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Trade and other payables At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Non-current payables Other payables 13 Accruals and deferred income 2 Total 13 2 At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Current payables Trade payables 228 198 Social security 2 2 Accruals and deferred income 73 59 Margin payables 1 Other payables 13 23 Total 316 283 27 Borrowings Non-current borrowings At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Unsecured borrowings 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 52 47 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 173 157 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 218 214 Total 445 420 Bank loans Variable unsecured loans 2 Total 2 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 16 17 Total 16 17 Total non-current borrowings 463 437 On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of 6.5% cumulative preference shares shall be entitled to 1 per share, in preference to all other classes of shareholders.
Holders of these shares are entitled to vote at meetings, except on the following matters: any question as to the disposal of the surplus profits after the dividend on these shares has been provided for: the election of directors: their remuneration: any agreement between the directors and the Company: or the alteration of the Articles of Association dealing with any such matters.
126 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 27 Borrowings continued Current borrowings At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Unsecured borrowings 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 304 US commercial paper 252 Short-term loans 11 13 Loans from joint ventures 40 4 Total 303 321 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 2 2 Total current borrowings 305 323 Included within borrowings are 204 million 2014 345 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges, of which amortised cost has been increased by 22 million 2014 24 million in the tables above.
Secured borrowings Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings compared with their book values are as follows: Restated At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Non-current unsecured borrowings 445 469 420 451 Non-current bank loans 2 2 Other non-current borrowings 16 16 17 17 Current borrowings 305 305 323 326 Total 768 792 760 794 The fair value of borrowings has been determined using either quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations or discounted cash flow analysis.
Interest rate risks and maturity of borrowings The maturity profile of the Groups non-current borrowings is as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m One to two years 181 3 Two to five years 226 167 After five years 56 267 Total non-current borrowings 463 437 Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups floating rate debt and cash held as at 31 March 2015 rise by an average of 1% over the year to 31 March 2016, there would be 3 million impact on the Groups profit before tax 2014 nil.
Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: At 31 March 2015 2014 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 0.1% 0.1% 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 n a 2.8% 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 4.1% 4.1% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 4.4% 4.3% Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27 Borrowings continued Short-term loans and overdrafts Current short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC holds a US$800 million five year committed multi-currency club facility with a core of highly-rated banks that was refinanced in July 2014, and matures in July 2019.
As at 31 March 2015, this committed facility remains undrawn.
The facility has a value of 539 million 2014 480 million.
This facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The facility may only be withdrawn in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Present value Present value Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments m m m m Within one year 4 2 4 2 Between one and five years 10 9 10 9 After five years 9 7 11 8 Total 23 18 25 19 Less future finance charges 5 6 Present value of minimum lease payments 18 19 28 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and their respective tax values.
Deferred tax liabilities arise where the carrying amount is higher than the tax value more tax deduction has been taken.
This can happen where we invest in capital assets, as governments often encourage investment by allowing tax depreciation to be recognised faster than accounting depreciation.
This reduces the tax value of the asset relative to its carrying amount.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets arise where the carrying amount is lower than the tax value less tax benefit has been taken.
This can happen where we have trading losses, which cannot be offset in the current period but can be carried forward and we consider it probable that we will be able to offset the losses against future taxable profits.
Movements in deferred income tax net assets liabilities in the year are as follows: Deferred tax m At 1 April 2013 Restated 13 Charged to the income statement 5 Charged to other comprehensive income 22 Charged directly to equity 1 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2014 Restated 38 Charged to the income statement 8 Credited to other comprehensive income 22 Charged directly to equity Currency translation differences 4 At 31 March 2015 28 Of the amounts of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, a charge of nil million 2014 1 million arose from changes in tax rates.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
Deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised tax losses of 664 million 2014 614 million have not been recognised to the extent that they exceed taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31March 2015.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 3 million 2014 3 million of which nil 2014 nil has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences arising from unremitted profits at the period-end date was approximately 3 million 2014 3 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities principally relate to deferred tax on acquired intangible assets.
Other deferred tax assets principally relate to deferred tax on provisions.
128 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 28 Deferred tax continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances in excess of depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m At 1 April 2013 Restated 134 30 164 Transfers between categories 3 3 Credited to the income statement 1 23 24 Currency translation differences 12 2 14 At 31 March 2014 Restated 121 2 123 Transfers between categories 1 1 Credited to the income statement 1 4 5 Currency translation differences 12 2 14 At 31 March 2015 132 1 133 Retirement benefit Share-based obligations payments Tax losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 April 2013 Restated 100 7 42 2 151 Transfers between categories 3 3 Charged credited to the income statement 6 1 23 1 29 Charged to other comprehensive income 22 22 Charged directly to equity 1 1 Currency translation differences 8 3 11 At 31 March 2014 Restated 64 5 16 85 Transfers between categories 1 1 Charged to the income statement 5 1 5 2 13 Credited to other comprehensive income 20 2 22 Charged directly to equity Currency translation differences 8 2 10 At 31 March 2015 87 4 13 1 105 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
As a result of these offsets, the deferred tax balances are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liabilities 32 42 Deferred tax assets 4 4 Net deferred tax liability 28 38 29 Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information i Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, principally in the UK and the US and, until December 2013, in the Netherlands.
Generally, the pension benefits provided under these plans are determined based on the pensionable salary and period of pensionable service of the individual members.
Most of the plans are funded and the plan assets held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The extent of the powers of the trustees, in particular in respect of funding and investment strategy, varies and is dependent on local regulations and the rules of each plan.
Payments made by the Group to the plans principally comprise funding contributions agreed with the trustees that are determined in accordance with local regulations to ensure that appropriate funding levels are maintained and funding deficits are eliminated over a reasonable period of time.
All of the significant defined benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants and most are closed to future accrual.
The Group operates defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
Contributions payable by the Group to these plans during the year amounted to 5 million 2014 3 million.
ii Other benefits The Groups subsidiaries in the US provide unfunded retirement medical plans to the majority of their employees.
Such plans provide financial assistance in meeting various costs including medical, dental and prescription drugs.
Employees are required to contribute to the cost of benefits received under the plans.
The Group meets the remaining costs of providing these benefits in the period in which they are incurred.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued b Summary of financial effect i Analysis of amounts presented in the income statement Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 m m Charged credited to operating profit Defined benefit plans: Current service cost Pension plans 3 5 Medical plans 1 2 Past service cost Pension plans 1 Medical plans 2 Gain on settlement 4 Plan administration expenses 3 2 6 5 Defined contribution plans 5 3 Net charge to operating profit 11 8 Charged credited to finance expense Interest on benefit obligations 62 64 Interest on plan assets 54 56 Net charge to finance expense 8 8 During the year ended 31 March 2014, the assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands were transferred to a new collective defined contribution plan and the defined benefit plan was closed.
For accounting purposes, this transfer was treated as a settlement on which the Group recognised a gain of 4 million of which 2 million was attributed to the Bulk Ingredients segment and 2 million was attributed to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
ii Analysis of amounts presented in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 m m Return on plan assets Actual return on plan assets net of asset management expenses 215 27 Interest on plan assets 54 56 Actual return higher lower than interest on plan assets 161 29 Actuarial gains losses Loss gain from changes in financial assumptions 155 60 Loss from changes in demographic assumptions 46 40 Gain loss from experience against assumptions 15 1 Net actuarial loss gain 186 19 During the year ended 31 March 2014, the trustees of the Amylum UK Pension Scheme agreed a full buy-in of its benefit obligations at a cost of 82million which was partially funded by an additional contribution from the Group of 6 million.
For accounting purposes, the related benefit obligation was valued at 69 million such that there was a loss on plan assets of 13 million.
iii Analysis of defined benefit liability At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Medical Medical Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit obligations: Funded plans 1 636 1 636 1 425 1 425 Unfunded plans 56 69 125 46 54 100 1 692 69 1 761 1 471 54 1 525 Fair value of plan assets 1 534 1 534 1 305 1 305 Net deficit 158 69 227 166 54 220 Presented in the statement of financial position: Retirement benefit surplus 25 25 Retirement benefit deficit 183 69 252 166 54 220 158 69 227 166 54 220 130 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued iv Analysis of movements in the net deficit Pensions Medical benefits Total m m m At 1 April 2013 185 80 265 Year ended 31 March 2014 Decrease in the benefit obligation 121 26 147 Decrease in the fair value of plan assets 102 102 At 31 March 2014 166 54 220 Year ended 31 March 2015 Increase in the benefit obligation 221 15 236 Increase in the fair value of plan assets 229 229 At 31 March 2015 158 69 227 c Defined benefit obligations i Principal assumptions Pensions For accounting purposes, the benefit obligation of each plan has been calculated in accordance with IAS 19 based on data gathered for the most recent actuarial valuation and by applying assumptions made by the Group on the advice of independent actuaries.
As required by local regulations, actuarial valuations of the US pension plans are carried out each year and those of the UK pension plans are carried out at least every three years.
An actuarial valuation at 31 March 2013 of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme Scheme has been concluded.
Under the new arrangements core funding contributions remain at 12 million per year.
A new secured funding account was established where supplimentary contributions of 6 million per year will be made during the first six years, payable to the Trustee on certain triggering events such as under performance of the Schemes investments or a deterioration in the strength of Tate & Lyles financial covenant.
The first two annual payments amounting to 12 million were credited to the secured funding account upon its establishment in October 2014 and have been accounted for as additional contributions to the Scheme in the second half of the year.
An actuarial valuation of the Amylum UK Pension Scheme was last carried out at 30 June 2011.
Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation were as follows: At 31 March 2015 UK US Other CPI 2.0% Inflation rate RPI 3.0% 2.5% n a Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% n a Expected rate of pension increases: Deferred pensions 2.0% n a n a Pensions in payment 2.8% n a n a Discount rate 3.3% 3.8% n a At 31 March 2014 UK US Other CPI 2.4% Inflation rate RPI 3.4% 2.5% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% 2.0% Expected rate of pension increases: Deferred pensions 2.4% n a 1.6% Pensions in payment 3.2% n a 1.6% Discount rate 4.2% 4.3% 3.5% Assumptions regarding future mortality rates of members of the Groups pension plans are based on published statistics and taking into account the profile of the plan members.
On this basis, the average life expectancies assumed for members of the plans are as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 UK US UK US Male aged 65 now 23 years 22 years 23 years 19 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 26 years 23 years 26 years 20 years Female aged 65 now 24 years 24 years 24 years 21 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 27 years 25 years 27 years 22 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill health.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued Medical benefits Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation are medical cost inflation and the discount rate applied to the expected benefit payments.
Management assumed medical cost inflation at 6.0% per annum 2014 6.0%, grading down to 5% by 2016, and used a discount rate of 3.5% 2014 4.1%.
ii Analysis of movements in the benefit obligation Pension benefits UK US Other Total Medical benefits Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2013 998 519 75 1 592 80 1 672 Year ended 31 March 2014 Service cost 1 4 5 2 7 Plan administration costs 2 2 2 Interest on benefit obligation 41 19 1 61 3 64 Actuarial gains losses : Changes in financial assumptions 23 21 2 42 18 60 Changes in demographic assumptions 39 1 40 40 Experience against assumptions 7 3 1 3 2 1 Net actuarial loss gain 23 23 1 1 20 19 Employees contributions 1 1 1 Benefits paid 49 26 2 77 4 81 Transfer on settlement 67 67 67 Currency translation differences 2 45 47 7 54 Increase decrease in the benefit obligation 15 74 62 121 26 147 At 31 March 2014 1 013 445 13 1 471 54 1 525 Year ended 31 March 2015 Service cost current 1 2 3 1 4 Service cost past 1 1 2 1 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 41 19 60 2 62 Actuarial gains losses : Changes in financial assumptions 115 35 150 5 155 Changes in demographic assumptions 1 41 42 4 46 Experience against assumptions 15 3 18 3 15 Net actuarial loss 101 73 174 12 186 Employees contributions Benefits paid 51 25 76 4 80 Currency translation differences 2 54 56 6 62 Increase in the benefit obligation 96 123 2 221 15 236 At 31 March 2015 1 109 568 15 1 692 69 1 761 iii Maturity of obligations At 31 March 2015, the weighted average duration of the significant defined benefit obligations was as follows: Duration Pension plans: UK 18 years US 13 years Medical benefits 10 years At 31 March 2015, the benefits expected to be paid by the plans over the next 10 years were as follows: Pension benefits UK US Other Total Medical benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit payments: Within 12 months 48 28 76 5 81 Between 1 to 2 years 48 29 77 4 81 Between 2 to 5 years 148 91 239 13 252 Between 5 to 10 years 257 161 418 22 440 132 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued d Plan assets i Investment strategy Principal risks The defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as interest rate, longevity, inflation and investment risk.
Interest rate risk Inflation risk Volatility in the financial markets can have a significant effect on the Inflation risk arises where pensionable salaries, deferred pensions or benefit obligation as the calculation of the obligation involves pensions in payment are subject to inflation increases.
A higher rate of discounting based on yields on AA-rated corporate bonds.
A inflation will lead to a higher benefit obligation.
decrease in the bond yield will increase the benefit obligation.
Longevity risk Investment risk Longevity or life expectancy represents a risk because the longer If the return on the plan assets is lower than the discount rate applied members of the plans live the higher benefit payments to them will be.
to the benefit obligation, there will be an increase in the deficit or An increase in life expectancy beyond that assumed will increase the reduction in the surplus on the plan.
Mitigation of risk The Group encourages the trustees of the plans to adopt an investment policy that seeks to mitigate these risks, which involves investing a significant proportion of the plan assets in liability-driven investment portfolios that mitigate interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
The Group seeks to ensure that, as far as is practicable, the investment portfolios of the funded plans are invested in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities and in currencies that match the expected future benefit payments as they fall due.
In the UK, interest rate derivatives are used to achieve close matching where matching fixed-interest securities are not available in the market.
Most of the inflation risk for the Group arises in the UK since deferred pensions and pensions in payment in the US do not attract inflation increases.
Inflation risk is mitigated by holding index-linked government bonds and corporate bonds and, in the UK, inflation derivatives.
At 31 March 2015, 367 million 2014 346 million of the benefit obligation was matched by qualifying insurance policies that also mitigate longevity risk.
The plans also maintain a portfolio of return-seeking investments, principally in the form of equities and property.
ii Plan assets by category At 31 March 2015 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 291 101 392 Corporate bonds quoted 125 230 355 Government bonds quoted 250 57 307 Property unquoted 26 21 47 Insurance policies unquoted 364 3 367 Other assets unquoted 66 66 1 122 412 1 534 At 31 March 2014 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 237 95 332 Corporate bonds quoted 148 173 321 Government bonds quoted 105 43 148 Property unquoted 45 17 62 Insurance policies unquoted 343 3 346 Other assets unquoted 96 96 974 331 1 305 Plan assets do not include any direct investments in securities issued by the Group or any property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
Assets are classified as quoted only if they have a quoted market price in an active market as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All other assets are classified as unquoted.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued iii Analysis of movements in the plan assets UK US Other Total m m m m At 1 April 2013 999 346 62 1 407 Year ended 31 March 2014 Interest on plan assets 42 13 1 56 Actual return lower higher than interest on plan assets 41 12 29 Employers contributions 24 18 1 43 Employees contributions 1 1 Benefits paid 49 26 2 77 Transfer on settlement 63 63 Currency translation differences 1 32 33 Decrease in fair value of plan assets 25 15 62 102 At 31 March 2014 974 331 1 305 Year ended 31 March 2015 Interest on plan assets 40 14 54 Actual return higher than interest on plan assets 129 32 161 Employers contributions 29 19 48 Employees contributions Benefits paid 51 25 76 Currency translation differences 1 41 42 Increase in fair value of plan assets 148 81 229 At 31 March 2015 1 122 412 1 534 Employer contributions to the pension plans for the year ended 31 March 2015 were 48 million 2014 43 million.
The Company also paid an additional 4 million 2014 4 million to the US unfunded retirement medical plans to meet the cost of providing the benefits in the financial year.
e Funding of the plans A full valuation is performed by actuaries for the trustees of each plan to determine the level of funding required.
Employer contributions are agreed between the trustees of each plan and the Group on the basis of these valuations.
The assumptions used by the trustees for funding purposes may differ from the assumptions made by the Group for accounting purposes.
As a result, the funding deficits or surpluses on the plans may be very different from the accounting deficits or surpluses.
During the year ending 31 March 2016, the Group expects to contribute approximately 41 million to its defined benefit pension plans and to pay approximately 5 million in relation to retirement medical benefits.
f Sensitivity analysis At 31 March 2015, the sensitivity of the net deficit on the plans to changes in the principal assumptions was as follows assuming in each case that the other assumptions are unchanged : Increase decrease in obligation Change Increase Decrease in assumption in assumption in assumption - m m Pension plans Inflation rate 50 bp 78 53 Life expectancy 1 year 74 74 Discount rate 100 bp 245 304 Medical benefits Medical cost inflation 50 bp 3 2 Discount rate 100 bp 7 8 134 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 30 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Restructuring Insurance and closure Other funds provisions provisions Total m m m m At 31 March 2014 Restated 6 2 14 22 Provided in the year 4 4 Released in the year Utilised in the year 1 1 1 3 Exchange and other movements 2 2 At 31 March 2015 7 1 13 21 At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 13 13 after more than one year 8 9 Total 21 22 Insurance funds represent amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
Restructuring and closure provisions relate to restructuring within the Group and are expected to be utilised within fiveyears.
Other provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters and previously disposed businesses and are expected to be utilised within five years.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31 Change in working capital Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Decrease in inventories 6 44 Increase decrease in receivables 9 34 Increase decrease in payables 1 56 Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 13 3 Decrease in provisions for other liabilities and charges 3 4 Decrease in working capital 8 15 32 Cash and cash equivalents At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 108 191 Short-term bank deposits 87 155 Total 195 346 Presented in the financial statements as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents 195 346 Total 195 346 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.3% 2014 0.3%, with an average maturity of three days 2014 four days.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Euro 31 33 US dollar 107 238 Sterling 29 52 Other 28 23 Total 195 346 33 Net debt Reconciliation of the decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt: Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 170 68 Net decrease in borrowings 43 44 Decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows 127 112 Fair value and other movements 1 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 5 3 Currency translation differences 39 37 Movement in share of net cash in joint ventures 19 20 Increase decrease in net debt in the year 151 126 Net debt at beginning of year 353 479 Net debt at end of year 504 353 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
136 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 33 Net debt continued Movements in the Groups net debt are as follows: Borrowings and finance leases Cash and cash Debt related Net cash of equivalents Current Non-current derivatives joint ventures Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2013 Restated 305 58 816 38 52 479 Decrease increase resulting from cash flows 68 40 4 18 94 Fair value and other movements 21 21 Reclassification 304 304 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Currency translation differences 27 2 50 12 2 35 At 31 March 2014 Restated 346 323 437 29 32 353 Increase decrease resulting from cash flows 170 40 3 26 101 Fair value movements other 6 1 4 1 Reclassification Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 4 1 5 Currency translation differences 19 24 27 7 7 46 At 31 March 2015 195 305 463 18 51 504 Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Euro 5 9 US dollar 530 397 Sterling 5 32 Other 26 3 Total 504 353 34 Contingent liabilities Trade guarantees At 31 March 2015 2014 m m Trade guarantees 1 No trade guarantees have been given in the normal course of business by the Group as at 31 March 2015 2014 1 million.
The guarantees outstanding as at 31 March 2014 were in respect of Revenue and Customs, ECGD recourse agreements, letters of credit and tender and performance bonds.
Sale of EU Sugars As previously announced, American Sugar Holdings ASR raised a number of claims totalling in the region of 40 million that it believes it has under the Share and Business Sale Agreement relating to its acquisition of the Groups EU Sugars business in September 2010.
These claims in large part relate to the turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing and the increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business.
Some, but not all, of these issues were considered in the expert adjudication on the closing accounts in which, as noted in the 2012 Annual Report, the expert strongly supported Tate & Lyles position.
ASR through its subsidiary T&L Sugars Limited has commenced formal proceedings in respect of these claims which the Group intends to defend vigorously.
A trial of these proceedings was held in the Commercial Court in London in early May 2015, with the judges verdict expected later in the year.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at 31 March 2015 will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35 Commitments Capital commitments At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Commitments for the purchase of intangible assets 4 1 Commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 71 36 Total 75 37 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the period-end date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Within one year 20 21 Between one year and five years 70 68 After five years 104 85 Total 194 174 36 Acquisitions and disposals Year ended 31 March 2015 Acquisitions On 1 August 2014, the Group completed its acquisition of the trade and assets of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd, a polydextrose producer in China.
Total consideration was 8 million, of which 2 million has been deferred in escrow as security against a number of general warranties and representations detailed in the acquisition agreement.
The provisionally determined fair value of net assets acquired totalled 5million, with provisional goodwill of 3 million recognised.
On 4 December 2014, the Group acquired a 90% equity interest in Gemacom Tech Indstria E Comrcio S. A. a leading Food Systems business in Brazil.
The new venture, Tate & Lyle Gemacom Gemacom, provides the Group with local infrastructure and capabilities to accelerate the growth of its Food Systems business in Brazil.
At the acquisition date, the Group entered into put and call option arrangements, whereby at a future date it could be required to purchase, or could itself opt to purchase the remaining 10% equity interest in the company for a fixed 3 million option price present value 2 million.
In addition, deferred cash consideration of 9 million which is payable at the end of five years from acquisition date had been recognised at its present value of 6 million.
No non-controlling interest was recognised as the risks and rewards of the ownership had been assumed by the Group.
Contingent consideration of 2 million in relation to the expected profit share payable to the minority shareholders over five years from the acquisition date has been recognised, representing the present value of the relevant share of forecast profits of Gemacom for the next five years.
Therefore, total consideration was 27 million consisting of cash consideration of 19 million, deferred consideration of 6 million, and contingent consideration of 2 million.
The contingent consideration has been disclosed as a Level 3 financial instrument see Note 18.
The fair value of net assets acquired totalled 5 million, with provisional goodwill of 24 million recognised.
Winway Gemacom 2015 m m m Cash consideration 8 19 27 Deferred consideration 6 6 Contingent consideration 2 2 Total consideration 8 27 35 Add: Liability recognised in respect of put option 2 2 Less: Net assets acquired 5 5 10 Provisional goodwill 3 24 27 Cash flows: Cash consideration paid 8 19 27 Cash acquired 1 1 Cash outflow on acquisitions 8 18 26 Goodwill recognised during the year was attributable to the broadening of the Groups product offering and other synergies expected to be achieved with the Groups existing businesses.
None of the goodwill arising on these acquisitions is currently tax deductible.
Businesses acquired during the year contributed sales of 8 million and profit before tax of nil to the Groups results.
Had they been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups financial results would not have been materially different.
Acquisition related costs were around 1 million.
138 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 36 Acquisitions and disposals continued Year ended 31 March 2014 Acquisitions On 17 May 2013, the Group acquired a 100% equity interest in Biovelop, an early-stage Swedish manufacturer of oat beta glucan.
The acquisition broadened the Groups health and wellness offering and added an oat-based clean label, speciality fibre with strong health claims to its existing corn-based portfolio.
On 8 October 2013, the Group acquired a 51% equity interest in Jiangsu Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, a leading Food Systems business in China.
The new venture, Tate & Lyle Howbetter, provides the Group with local infrastructure and capabilities to accelerate the growth of its Food Systems business in China.
At the acquisition date, the Group entered into put and call option arrangements whereby at a future date it could be required to purchase, or could itself opt to purchase, the 49% non-controlling interest in Tate & Lyle Howbetter for an amount in cash based on the future results of that business.
The Group initially recognised a liability of 2 million in relation to the put option and a corresponding debit to equity attributable to owners of the Company reflecting the non-controlling interests of the minority shareholders.
Aggregate goodwill of 10 million was recognised on business combinations during the year which was determined as follows: Biovelop Howbetter 2014 m m m Cash consideration 12 3 15 Non-controlling interests share of net assets acquired 1 1 Less: Net assets acquired 4 2 6 Goodwill 8 2 10 Cash flows: Cash consideration paid 12 3 15 Cash outflow on acquisitions 12 3 15 Goodwill recognised during the year was attributable to the broadening of the Groups product offering and other synergies expected to be achieved with the Groups existing businesses.
None of the goodwill recognised during the year is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Business acquired during the year contributed revenue of 2 million and a loss before tax of 2 million to the Groups results.
Had they been acquired at the beginning of the year, their contribution to the Groups results would not have been materially different.
Acquisition-related costs were less than 1 million.
Disposal On 31 May 2013, the on-sale by the acquirer of Orsan a monosodium glutamate producer in which Tate & Lyle held a stake that was sold in 2009 resulted in a one-off operating gain of 3 million.
37 Events after the reporting period Major business re-alignment Re-alignment of Eaststarch European joint venture On 21 April 2015, the Group announced the exit from the substantial part of its European Bulk Ingredients business.
Tate & Lyle and Archer Daniels Midland Company ADM signed an agreement to re-align Eaststarch C. V. Eaststarch, their joint venture corn wet milling business in Europe in which each owns a 50% equity share.
Eaststarch owns and operates three corn wet mills located in Slovakia, Bulgaria and Turkey, and has a 50% equity share in Europes largest corn wet mill in Hungary.
Tate & Lyle will: Acquire full ownership of the plant in Slovakia Exit the predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary which will be acquired by ADM Receive a cash sum of 240 million at closing, subject to customary closing adjustments, including for net cash and working capital, and an additional payment of up to 20 million in 2019 conditional on future corn and sugar pricing Continue to supply its European customers with crystalline fructose, a speciality sweetener, by being appointed as distributor for crystalline fructose produced from the plant in Turkey under a long-term agreement Appoint ADM as exclusive agent for Bulk Ingredients produced from the plant in Slovakia and Tate & Lyles wholly-owned corn wet mill in the Netherlands under a long-term agreement.
Completion is conditional upon regulatory clearances which are expected in the summer.
Net cash proceeds from this agreement to be received by Tate & Lyle will be retained to provide flexibility to invest for growth in Speciality Food Ingredients.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, Eaststarch had adjusted operating profit of 83 million, 23% lower than in 2014 reflecting lower EU sugar prices.
The pro-forma impact on the adjusted income statement for 2015 assuming the transaction occurred at 1 April 2014 is disclosed as additional financial information on page 158.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37 Events after the reporting period continued Re-focus and restructure SPLENDA Sucralose On 21 April 2015, the Group announced that it had decided to consolidate SPLENDA Sucralose production into its facility in the US, and close its Singapore facility by Spring 2016.
Exceptional cost impact of the business re-alignment The re-structuring of the European Bulk Ingredients business is expected to give rise to a pre-tax exceptional profit on disposal of approximately 60 million subject to exchange rate movements and the timing of completion.
In total, exceptional charges of up to around 185 million will be recognised from these business re-alignment actions.
These include charges of 118 million recognised in the year ended 31 March 2015, and a further exceptional charge to be recognised in the year ending 31 March 2016 of around 65 million.
These exceptional charges consist of: An exceptional charge of around 163 million for the re-structuring of the SPLENDA Sucralose business.
This consists of 113 million for the impairment of the full carrying value of the Singapore facility recognised in the year ended 31 March 2015.
The impairment charge comprises a full write-down of the property, plant and equipment 108 million and associated intangible assets 5 million.
Anticipated cash closure costs of up to 50 million will be recognised in the year ending 31 March 2016.
An exceptional charge of up to 20 million in relation to the restructuring of our European operations to be predominantly recognised in the year ending 31 March 2016.
This consists of up to 15 million of anticipated exceptional cash costs of which 5 million have been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2015 and around 5 million of non-cash items.
38 Related party disclosures Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management being its directors and executive officers.
No related party transactions with close family members of the Groups key management occurred in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Transactions and balances with and between joint ventures are as shown below.
There are no such transactions with associates.
Year ended 31 March Restated 2015 2014 Continuing operations m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 142 154 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures 265 304 At 31 March Restated 2015 2014 m m Receivables due from joint ventures 24 10 Payables due to joint ventures 16 21 Financing loans to joint ventures 8 deposits from joint ventures 40 12 The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms The Group provides guarantees in respect of banking facilities of a joint venture totalling 8 million 2014 9 million.
Key management compensation Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 8.
140 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 39 Currency exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of the Groups foreign operations into pounds sterling were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 2014 1 1 Average rate US dollar 1.61 1.59 Euro 1.28 1.19 At 31 March 2015 2014 1 1 Year-end rate US dollar 1.49 1.67 Euro 1.38 1.21 40 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 1 Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom Percentage of equity attributable Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC Astaxanthin Manufacturing Limited Dormant 100 Cesalpinia UK Limited Dormant 100 G. C. Hahn and Company Limited Blending 100 Hahntech International Limited Dormant 100 2 Harvey Steel Sugars Limited Dormant 100 Histonpark Limited Dormant 100 Robinson Milling Systems Tewkesbury Limited Dormant 100 T. L. S. S. Pension Nominees Limited Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Group Services Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Holdings Americas Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Holdings Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Industrial Holdings Limited Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury company 100 Tate & Lyle Investments Gulf States Limited Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Investments Brazil Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Overseas Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Pension Trust Limited Pension company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Share Shop Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle Technology Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Trading & Developments Limited Dormant 100 2 Tate & Lyle UK Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ventures II LP Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Ventures Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ventures LP Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle LLC Holding company 100 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle LLC which is registered in Delaware, US.
2 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Country of Percentage of incorporation equity attributable or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA SFI distribution and sales support 100 Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Food systems production and SFI 100 distribution 2 Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Belgium N. V. Internal service provider 100 Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Finance Limited Internal service provider 100 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil S. A. Citric acid production and SFI 100 distribution G. C. Hahn & Co. do Brasil Estabilizantes e Tecnologia para Dormant 100 Alimentos Ltda Tate & Lyle Holdings Brasil LTDA Holding company 100 Food systems production and Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Ltda sales 90 Canada Tate & Lyle Ingredients Canada Limited SFI sales support 100 Chile Tate & Lyle Chile Commercial Ltda SFI distribution and sales support 100 1 China Tate & Lyle Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd SFI distribution and sales support 100 1 G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Stabilizer Business Shanghai Ltd Food systems sales 100 1 Tate & Lyle Howbetter Co. Ltd Food systems production 51 Tate & Lyle Food Ingredients Nantong Company Limited Polydextrose production 100 Colombia Tate & Lyle Colombia S. A.
S SFI distribution and sales support 100 Croatia G. C. Hahn & Co. d. o. o. Za distribuciju  Food systems sales 100 Czech Republic G. C. Hahn & Co. Stabilizacni technika, s. r. o.
Food systems sales 100 Egypt Tate & Lyle Egypt LLC Dormant 100 France G. C. Hahn & Cie. S. A. R. L. Food systems sales 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients France S. A. S. Research and development centre 100 Germany G. C. Hahn & Co.  GmbH Food systems production 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Cooperationsgeschaft mbH Holding company 100 HAHN International GmbH Dormant 100 HL Handelskontor GmbH Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Germany GmbH BI and SFI sales support 100 Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Gibraltar Limited Reinsurance 100 BI distribution and SFI sales Greece Tate & Lyle Greece S. A. support 95 India Tate & Lyle Investments India Private Ltd Dormant 100 Israel Tate & Lyle Israel Limited Dormant 100 Gamtal Foods Ltd Dormant 65 Italy Tate & Lyle Italia S. P. A.
Food systems production and SFI 100 sales support Japan Tate & Lyle Japan KK SFI distribution 100 Lithuania UAB G. C. Hahn & Co. Food systems sales 100 Mexico Tate & Lyle Mexico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. SFI distribution and sales support 100 Mexama, S. A. fide C. V. Dormant 65 Talo Services Internal service provider 100 Morocco Tate & Lyle Morocco SA BI and SFI production 100 Netherlands Nederlandse Glucose Industrie B. V. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Netherlands B. V. BI and SFI production 100 Tate & Lyle Biomaterials Europe B. V. Dormant 100 Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika stabilizowania Sp.
z. o. o. Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Global Shared Services Sp.
Internal service provider 100 Tate & Lyle Poland Sp.
z o. o. BI & SFI sales support 100 1 Russian OOO Hahntech Service Food systems sales 100 Federation Slovakia Tate & Lyle Slovakia, s. r. o.
Internal service provider 100 Singapore Tate & Lyle Singapore Pte Ltd Sucralose production 100 Tate & Lyle Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Singapore WWT Pte.
Ltd. Internal service provider 100 South Africa Tate & Lyle South Africa Proprietary Limited Food systems production and SFI 100 distribution 142 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 40 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Country of Percentage of incorporation equity attributable or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes y Tecnologia para Alimentos Food systems sales 100 Ebromyl S. L. Dormant 100 Talan Iberica SA Dormant 100 Sweden Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Oat protein and Beta Glucan 100 production 1 Ukraine PII G. C. Hahn & Co. Kiev Food systems sales 100 United Arab Tate & Lyle DMCC Food systems and SFI sales support 100 Emirates US Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients LLC Food systems production 100 Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house finance 100 TLHUS, Inc. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas LLC BI and SFI production 100 Tate & Lyle Sucralose LLC Sucralose production 100 TLI Holding LLC In-house finance 100 Tate & Lyle Domestic International Sales Corporation Internal service provider 100 Tate & Lyle Grain, Inc.
Grain products 100 Tate & Lyle Malic Acid LLC Dormant 100 Tate & Lyle Sugar Holdings, Inc. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Americas LLC Internal service provider 100 Tate & Lyle Citric Acid LLC Citric acid production 100 Staley International Inc. Cereal sweeteners & starches 100 G. C. Hahn USA LLC Dormant 100 1 Non-coterminous year end.
Joint ventures Country of Percentage of incorporation equity attributable or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Austria Eaststarch Austria GmbH Internal service provider 50 1 Bulgaria Amylum Bulgaria Marketing and Logistics EOOD Dormant 50 1,2 Amylum Bulgaria EAD BI and SFI production 50 1,2 Hungary Hungrana Kft BI and SFI production 25 1 Greenpower E85 BI and SFI production 25 1 Hungranatrans Kft BI and SFI production 25 1 SzSzV Kft Holding company 25 2 Mexico Almidones Mexicanos SA BI and SFI production 50 Promotora fide Productos y Mercados Mexicanos, S. A. fide C. V. BI and SFI production 50 Netherlands Eaststarch C. V. Holding company 50 Eastern Sugar B. V. Holding company 50 1 Romania Amylum Romania S. R. L. BI and SFI sales support 50 1 Slovakia Amylum Slovakia spol s. r. o. BI and SFI production 50 Eastern Sugar s. r. o. Dormant 50 Eastern Sugar Slovensko, a. s. v likvidacii Dormant 50 1 Turkey Amylum Nisasta Sanayi five Ticaret Anonim Sireketi BI and SFI production 50 US DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Industrial ingredients 50 1 Share capital held by Eaststarch C. V. 2 Non-coterminous year end.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Associates Percentage of equity attributable Country of incorporation or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Thailand Tapioca Development Corporation Starch production 33.3 1 Indirect associate of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of those entities whose financial years are not coterminous with that of the Group are consolidated in the Groups financial statements on the basis of management accounts for the year to 31 March.
41 Reconciliation of adjusted performance measures For the reasons set out in Note 1, Tate & Lyle presents adjusted performance measures including adjusted sales, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share.
Reported measures are also adjusted to reflect the presentation of Group financial information on a proportionate consolidation basis.
For periods presented, these adjusted performance measures exclude, where relevant, exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net retirement benefit interest, and tax on those adjustments.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the adjusted performance measures to the most directly comparable measures presented in accordance with IFRS.
Restated Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Adjusting Adjusting m unless otherwise stated Reported items Adjusted Reported items Adjusted Continuing operations Sales 2 356 338 2 694 2 754 393 3 147 Operating profit 33 214 247 251 98 349 Net finance expense 31 8 23 35 8 27 Profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 49 49 61 61 Profit before tax 51 173 224 277 45 322 Income tax expense 21 27 48 32 28 60 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the Company 30 146 176 245 17 262 Basic earnings per share 6.6p 31.4p 38.0p 52.8p 3.7p 56.5p Diluted earnings per share 6.5p 31.2p 37.7p 52.1p 3.6p 55.7p Effective tax rate 40.5% 21.2% 11.6% 18.5% Discontinued operations Income tax credit 28 28 Profit for the year 28 28 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the Company 28 28 Basic earnings per share 6.0p 6.0 p Diluted earnings per share 5.9p 5.9 p Total operations Sales 2 356 338 2 694 2 754 393 3 147 Operating profit 33 214 247 251 98 349 Net finance expense 31 8 23 35 8 27 Profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 49 49 61 61 Profit before tax 51 173 224 277 45 322 Income tax expense 21 27 48 4 56 60 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the Company 30 146 176 273 11 262 Basic earnings per share 6.6p 31.4p 38.0p 58.8p 2.3 p 56.5p Diluted earnings per share 6.5p 31.2p 37.7p 58.0p 2.3 p 55.7p Effective tax rate 40.5% 21.2% 1.5% 18.5% Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
144 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 41 Reconciliation of adjusted performance measures continued The Group also continues to use proportionately consolidated cash flow financial information for management of the business.
The following tables shows the reconciliation of the adjusted performance measures to the most directly comparable measures presented in accordance with IFRS.
Year ended 31 March 2015 Eliminate Add equity proportionate Reported Reported accounting consolidation pre IFRS 11 m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax from continuing operations 51 49 63 65 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 85 13 98 Amortisation of intangible assets 24 24 Exceptional items non cash 113 113 Other non-cash items Finance income 1 1 Finance expense 32 32 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 49 49 Changes in working capital 8 13 5 Changes in net retirement benefit obligations 47 47 Cash generated from continuing operations 216 63 279 Interest paid 30 30 Net income tax paid 7 11 18 Net cash generated from operating activities 179 52 231 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 121 11 132 Purchase of intangible assets 34 34 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 26 26 Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 2 2 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2 2 Interest received 1 1 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 16 16 Net cash used in investing activities 164 26 190 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of own shares 12 12 Cash inflow from additional borrowings 278 3 275 Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings 319 7 326 Repayment of capital element of finance leases 2 2 Dividends paid to the owners of the Company 130 130 Net cash used in financing activities 185 10 195 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 170 16 154 Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 41 Reconciliation of adjusted performance measures continued Year ended 31 March 2014 Eliminate Add equity proportionate Reported Restated accounting consolidation pre IFRS 11 m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax from continuing operations 277 61 74 290 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 83 14 97 Amortisation of intangible assets 20 1 21 Share-based payments 8 8 Exceptional items Other non-cash items 6 6 Finance income 2 2 Finance expense 37 37 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 61 61 Changes in working capital 15 23 38 Changes in net retirement benefit obligations 43 43 Cash generated from continuing operations 328 112 440 Interest paid 33 33 Net income tax paid 9 14 23 Net cash generated from operating activities 286 98 384 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 102 12 114 Purchase of intangible assets 45 45 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 33 1 34 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 15 15 Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 3 3 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 4 4 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2 2 Interest received 2 2 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 105 105 Net cash used in investing activities 21 116 137 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of own shares 29 29 Cash inflow from additional borrowings 8 4 4 Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings 50 4 46 Repayment of capital element of finance leases 2 2 Dividends paid to the owners of the Company 124 124 Net cash used in financing activities 197 197 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 68 18 50 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements see Note 42.
146 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 42 Adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements With effect from 1 April 2014, the Group adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements which changed significantly the accounting for its interests in joint ventures.
Before adoption of the standard, the Groups interests in joint ventures were accounted for by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows of joint ventures were combined on a line-by-line basis with those of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries.
IFRS 11 prohibits the use of proportionate consolidation and requires that joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups share of the after tax profits and losses of the joint ventures has been shown on one line of the consolidated income statement, its share of their net assets has been shown on one line of the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of cash flows reflects cash flows between the Group and the joint ventures within cash flows from investing activities.
While these changes have not affected the Groups earnings or its net assets, they have affected many of the individual line items presented in the Groups financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 1, the Group has also presented a third statement of financial position as at 1 April 2013 following the adoption of this accounting policy.
Comparative financial information for 2014 has been restated to adopt the new standard.
An analysis of the effect of the impact on the Groups results for 2015 and 2014 is presented below: Year ended 31 March 2015 Elimination of Adoption of Under previous proportionate equity policy consolidation accounting As reported m m m m Consolidated profit or loss and comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2015 Continuing operations Sales 2 694 338 2 356 Operating profit 96 63 33 Finance income 1 1 Finance expense 32 32 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 49 49 Profit before tax 65 63 49 51 Income tax expense 35 14 21 Profit from continuing operations 30 49 49 30 Profit from discontinued operations Profit for the year 30 49 49 30 Other comprehensive expense 2 18 18 2 Total comprehensive income 28 31 31 28 Consolidated cash flows Year ended 31 March 2015 Net cash inflow from operating activities 231 52 179 Net cash outflow from investing activities 190 26 164 Net cash outflow from financing activities 195 10 185 Net cash inflow 154 16 170 Consolidated assets and liabilities At 31 March 2015 Non-current assets 1 378 124 239 1 493 Current assets 1 102 172 930 Total assets 2 480 296 239 2 423 Total equity 936 239 239 936 Non-current liabilities 790 7 783 Current liabilities 754 50 704 Total equity and liabilities 2 480 296 239 2 423 Going forward, the Group will continue to present segment and adjusted financial information on a proportionate consolidation basis since this reflects the management of our joint ventures on an integrated basis with the Groups subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 42 Adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements continued Year ended 31 March 2014 Elimination of Adoption of Under previous proportionate equity policy consolidation accounting As reported m m m m Consolidated profit or loss and comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2014 Continuing operations Sales 3 147 393 2 754 Operating profit 325 74 251 Finance income 2 2 Finance expense 37 37 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 61 61 Profit before tax 290 74 61 277 Income tax expense 45 13 32 Profit from continuing operations 245 61 61 245 Profit from discontinued operations 28 28 Profit for the year 273 61 61 273 Other comprehensive expense 113 25 25 113 Total comprehensive income 160 36 36 160 Consolidated cash flows Year ended 31 March 2014 Net cash inflow from operating activities 384 98 286 Net cash outflow from investing activities 137 116 21 Net cash outflow from financing activities 197 197 Net cash inflow 50 18 68 Consolidated assets and liabilities At 31 March 2014 Non-current assets 1 319 137 224 1 406 Current assets 1 208 146 1 062 Total assets 2 527 283 224 2 468 Total equity 1 050 224 224 1050 Non-current liabilities 718 6 712 Current liabilities 759 53 706 Total equity and liabilities 2 527 283 224 2 468 148 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
