Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate B comprising equity securities as dened in the Companies attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, Act 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,762,155 such you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other under paragraph A above in connection with an offer by independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial way of a rights issue: Services and Markets Act 2000. i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass considers necessary, these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you have sold or transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions and please consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.
make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, Notice is hereby given of the eighty first Annual General Meeting legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any of the Company to be held on 28 April 2016 at 11:00 am at territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end TheBritish Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2017 or, if earlier, London, WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: until the close of business on 27 July 2017 but, in each case, so that Ordinary Business the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during Ordinary Resolutions: thisperiod which would, or might, require shares to be allotted 1.
To receive the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report, orrights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be Strategic Report, the Auditors Report and the Financial Statements granted after the authority ends: and the Board may allot shares or for the year ended 31 December 2015. grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had notended.
To declare due and payable on 20 May 2016 a final dividend of 1.18 pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year Special Resolutions: ended 31 December 2015 to shareholders on the register at 16.
That, if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given the power to allot close of business on 8 April 2016. equity securities as dened in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary 3.
To declare due and payable on 15 July 2016 a special dividend shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, free of the of 9.20 pence per ordinary share of the Company to shareholders restriction in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power on the register at close of business on 3 June 2016. to be limited: 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of or invitation to apply for 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under 6.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
paragraph B of resolution 15, by way of a rights issue only : 7.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker DBE.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame.
rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise 10.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate 12.
To elect as a Director, Humphrey Singer.
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold ofce legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts any territory or any other matter: and are laid before the Company.
B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A of 14.
Subject to the passing of resolution 13, to authorise the Audit resolution 15 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor on for cash, to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury behalf of the Board.
shares otherwise than under paragraph A above up to a nominal amount of 1,632,161, such power to apply until the 15.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe 2017 or, if earlier, until the close of business on 27 July 2017, for or convert any security into shares in the Company: but during this period the Company may make offers, and A up to a nominal amount of 10,881,077 such amount enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after paragraph B below, in excess of 10,881,077 : and the power ends: and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
147 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 17.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 20.
That the sale of a first floor, two bedroom apartment no.
3-1-2 at of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the Costa Beach development in Port Vell, Son Servera, Mallorca, the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. for the sum of 278,000, to ordinary shares of 1 pence each of the Company ordinary shares, Mr Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, be hereby approved.
That the sale of a top floor, two bedroom apartment no.
2-2-6 at A the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised the Costa Beach development in Port Vell, Son Servera, Mallorca, to be purchased shall be 326,432,300: by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. for the sum of 356,250, to Mr Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, be hereby approved.
B the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for ordinary shares is 1 pence per ordinary share: 22.
That the sale of Plot 90 at the Radius development, Osiers Road, Wandsworth, London, SW18, by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, for the C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be sum of 648,964, to Mr Ryan Mangold, a Director of the Company, paid for an ordinary share is the highest of: be hereby approved.
i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Special Resolution: market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from 23.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five of the Company may continue to be called on not less than business days immediately preceding the date on which 14 clear days notice.
such ordinary share is purchased: and Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and out on pages 150 to 155. the highest independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out: Action to be taken If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person, D the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the please bring with you the attendance card accompanying this document.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help 2017 and 27 October 2017 unless such authority is renewed us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available prior to such time: and from 9:30 am on the day of the meeting.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment E the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares and similar items will not be allowed into the building and in the interests under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such of security, by attending the meeting, upon request, you hereby agree to authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after be searched together with any bags and other possessions.
The meeting the expiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from in pursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
There is wheelchair conferred by this resolution had not expired.
access to the venue for shareholders who require it or those with reduced Special Business mobility.
However, where required, attendees are strongly advised to bring Ordinary Resolutions: their own carers to assist with their general mobility around the venue.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 85 An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
Directions to for the financial year ended 31 December 2015. the venue can be found on the reverse of your attendance card.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the Annual Act 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to you with this when this resolution is passed are authorised to: notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
In order for it to count, the registrar must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on 26 April A make political donations to political parties and or independent 2016.
If you prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either via the election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: internet at www.
com or, if you are a CREST member, B make political donations to political organisations other than through the CREST system by completing and transmitting a CREST political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
C incur political expenditure not exceeding 250,000 in Recommendation aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed passing this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company General Meeting of the Company in 2017.
For the purposes of and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour this resolution the terms political donations, political parties, of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of all of his or her independent election candidates, political organisation and own beneficial shareholding.
political expenditure have the meanings given by Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
148 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Inspection of documents The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR, during normal business hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Independent Non Executive Directors: and a copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015, including the Directors Remuneration Report referred to in resolution 18, is also available on our website www.
co. uk corporate By Order of the Board James Jordan Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey plc Registered Ofce: Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 10 March 2016 149
