DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
and the group and parent company financial statements in The directors are responsible for the maintenance accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included Company law requires the directors to prepare group on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS financial statements on the same basis.
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Under company law the directors must not approve We, the directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a our knowledge: true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair each of the group and parent company financial statements, the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or directors are required to: loss of the company and the undertakings included in the select suitable accounting policies and then apply consolidation taken as a whole: and them consistently: the strategic report directors report includes a fair review of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the development and performance of the business and the and prudent: position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is parent company will continue in business.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting performance, business model and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy On behalf of the Board at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for R S Kelvin L D Page taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 19 March 2015 19 March 2015 other irregularities.
