122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Thomas Cook Group plc is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
The principal activities of the Group are discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 15 to 33.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 November 2015.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
After making enquiries and taking into account the matters set out in the Risk Management section on pages 56 to 59, the Directors confirm that they consider it appropriate to use the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value through the profit or loss, share-based payments and defined benefit pension obligations.
The financial statements have been rounded to the nearest million in Great British Pounds, or in certain cases, to the nearest thousand pounds.
Amounts in pence have been rounded to the nearest tenth of a pence.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE Adoption of new or amended standards and interpretations in the current year In the current year, the following new or amended standards have been adopted.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within consolidated financial statements.
The amendment did not have an effect onthe Group financial statements.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
The amendment did not have an effect on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The amendment did not havean effect on the Group financial statements.
IAS 27 Revised Separate financial statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules relating to financial assets andfinancial liabilities.
The amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amounts of CGUs.
The application of these amendments hasno material impact on the disclosures in the Group financial statements.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 123 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE CONTINUED IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement on the novation of derivatives and the continuation of hedge accounting.
The application of these amendments has not had any material impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRIC 21 Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay levy that is not income tax.
The interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy.
The Group is not currently subject to significant levies so the impact on the Groupisnot material.
New or amended standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective or EU endorsed At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective or EU endorsed: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard will eventually replace IAS 39 but currently only details the requirements for recognition and measurement of financial assets.
The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
This standard isnot expected to have a significant impact and will only have an impact on the disclosures of the financial statements.
There are no further IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Directors expect that IFRS 9 will impact the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Interpretation guidance included within SIC Interpretation 12 Consolidation special purpose entities, indicates that certain special purpose entities SPEs, which are involved in aircraft leasing arrangements with the Group, should be interpreted as being controlled by the Group, and therefore subject to consolidation, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities.
As a consequence, theGroup has consolidated six 2014: six SPEs that own five 2014: five aircraft operated by the Group on operating leases.
Business combination The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, contingent consideration arrangements entered into, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
These values are finalised within 12 months of the date of acquisition.
When the ownership of an acquired company is less than 100%, the non-controlling interest is measured at either the proportion of the recognised net assets attributable to the non-controlling interest or at the fair value of the acquired company at date of acquisition.
The excessof the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 124 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Associates Entities, other than subsidiaries, over which the Group exerts significant influence, but not control or joint control, are associates.
Entities which the Group jointly controls with one or more other party under a contractual arrangement are joint ventures.
The Groups investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
Foreign currency The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling.
Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that have a functional currency other than sterling.
The balance sheets of such entities are translated at period end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences are recorded through a separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the year end are translated at period end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
When a foreign entity is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded inequity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Groups income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets other Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are carried on the Groups balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Other than capitalised development costs, internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets useful life, when finite, as follows: Brands 9 years to indefinite life Customer relationships 1 to 15 years Computer software 3 to 10 years Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to generate net cash inflows.
These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our brands and the level of marketing support.
The nature of the industry we operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually at the CGU level by comparing their carrying amount to their recoverable amount.
All other intangible assets are assessed at each reporting date for indications of impairment.
If such indications exist, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 125 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of straight-line depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Where costs are incurred aspart of the start-up or commissioning of an item of property, plant or equipment, and that item is available for use but incapable of operating in the manner intended by management without such a start-up or commissioning period, then such costs are included within the cost of theitem.
Costs that are not directly attributable to bringing an asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating inthe manner intended by management are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, upon which no depreciation is provided, is calculated on a straight-line basis and aims to write down their cost to their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Leasehold properties Shorter of remaining lease period and 40 years Aircraft 23 years or remaining lease period if shorter Aircraft spares 5 to 15 years or remaining lease period if shorter Other fixed assets 3 to 15 years Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.
Aircraft overhaul and maintenance costs Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour costs, is capitalised and amortised over the average expected life between major overhauls.
All other replacement spares and other costs relating to maintenance of fleet assets including maintenance provided under pay-as-you-go contracts are charged to the income statement on consumption or as incurred respectively.
Provision is made for the future costs of major overhauls of operating leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes by making appropriate charges to the income statement, calculated by reference to hours flown and or the expired lease period, as a consequence ofobligations placed upon the Group under the terms of certain operating leases.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value, on derivatives not designated as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented on the balance sheet on a gross basis.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or anon-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within12 months.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 126 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Hedge accounting For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income or cost line, where they offset the changes in fair value on the hedged item.
Where the hedged item is designated in a fair value hedge relationship of a financial liability held at amortised cost, the change in fair value in respect to the hedged risk is recorded as a fair value adjustment within finance income or cost.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies forhedge accounting.
At that point in time the changes in fair value on the hedging instrument will continue to be recognised immediately into the income statement, while the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for fair value changes.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of future cash flows is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net operating expenses.
Forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options are not designated as part of the hedging relationship and therefore, are recorded in the income statement within costs of providing tourism.
Changes in fair value deferred through the hedge reserve, are recognised in the income statement in the same period, or periods, in which thehedged highly probable forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Non-derivative financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards relating to the financial asset or when the contractual rights to the cash flows associated with the financial asset expire.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation isdischarged, cancelled or expires.
The measurement of particular financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and term deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
Where the Group operates centrally pooled accounts and has the intention and ability to pool account balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed.
Where the intention or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet and the overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value.
Gains or losses except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised directly in equity until the financial asset is derecognised.
At this point, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Any impairment losses, foreign exchange gains or losses ordividends receivable are recognised in the income statement.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 127 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Held for trading investments Short-term investments and derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship such as natural hedges of a balance sheet exposure are classified as held for trading and are recognised and subsequently measured at their fair value.
Gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Other non-current asset investments The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured using an appropriate valuation technique.
Where a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost.
Loans and receivables areinitially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Interest bearing borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs.
They are subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings that are designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are adjusted for changes in their fair value in respect of the hedged risk.
The adjustment will be amortised to the income statement at the time when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources willbe required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are recognised at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted to its present value.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes.
The pension liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of these schemes represent the difference between the present value of the Groups obligations under the schemes calculated using the projected unit credit method and the fair value of those schemes assets.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the period in which they arise within the statement of comprehensive income and expense.
The current service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the income statement as a personnel expense.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets are presented as finance costs and finance income respectively.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement in personnel expenses.
Pension costs charged against profits in respect of the Groups defined contribution schemes represent the amount of the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Share capital Ordinary Shares including share premium are classified as equity.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 128 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Leases Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases.
All other leases areoperating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments within property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected useful lives.
The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included inoperating income due to its operating nature.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share options to certain employees as part of their total remuneration.
The fair values of the share options arecalculated at the date of grant, using an appropriate option pricing model.
These fair values are charged to the income statement on astraight-line basis over the expected vesting period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as acapital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over thevesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts Premiums written relate to business incepted during the year, together with any differences between the booked premiums for prior years and those previously accrued, less cancellations.
Premiums are recognised as revenue earned premiums proportionally over the period of coverage.
The portion of premium received on in-force contracts that relates to unexpired risks at the balance sheet date is reported as a provision for unearned premium.
Premiums are shown after the deduction of commission and premium taxes where relevant.
Claims and loss adjustment expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to policyholders or third-parties damaged by policyholders.
They include best estimate direct and indirect claims settlement costs arising from events that have occurred up to the balance sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Company.
Where applicable, deductions are made for salvage and other recoveries.
The Company does not discount its liabilities for unpaid claims.
Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated using the input of assessments for individual cases reported to the Company and statistical analysis for the claims incurred but not reported IBNR.
It is assumed that the development pattern of the current claims will be informed byprevious experience.
The expected claims are calculated having regard to events that have occurred prior to the balance sheet date.
Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers, under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group, and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts, are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as receivables from reinsurers.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.
Receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from insurance policyholders.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 129 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue recognition The Groups revenue is measured as the aggregate amount of gross revenue receivable from inclusive tours, airline travel services, hotel services, travel agency commission and other travel services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
The Group records revenue on a net basis after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and compensation vouchers granted to customers.
Revenue relating to travel services arranged by the Groups leisure and airline travel providers, including travel agency commission and other services, are taken to the income statement on the date of holiday and flight departure.
Revenue relating to other services provided by the Group is taken to the income statement as earned.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership is transferred to the customer, usually on delivery of the goods.
Monies received by the balance sheet date relating to holidays commencing and flights departing after the period end are included within current liabilities as revenue received in advance.
Expenses Direct expenses relating to inclusive tours arranged by the Groups leisure travel providers are taken to the income statement on holiday departure or over the period to which they relate as appropriate.
Indirect expenses are recognised in the income statement over the period towhich goods and services are received by the Group.
Separately disclosed items The Group separately discloses in the income statement: non-recurring items, impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles: and IAS 39 fair value remeasurement.
Separately disclosed items, namely items that are material either because of their size or their nature, and which are non-recurring, arepresented within their relevant income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure.
The separate reporting helps provide a full understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items which are included within the separately disclosed category include: profits losses on disposal of assets or businesses and costs of acquisitions: costs of integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes: significant goodwill or other asset impairments: material write-down of assets reassessment of accruals, reflecting a more cautious evaluation in light of current trading and economic conditions excluding errors or prior year items : and other individually material items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Groups management consider that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
IAS 39 fair value remeasurement includes movements in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships.
Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward contracts mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
Interest income and charges arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and interest charges arising on the unwind of discount on exceptional provisions and contingent consideration are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
The Groups management consider that these items should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, expected return on pension plan assets, changes in the fair value of held fortrading interest-related derivatives, and fair value adjustments to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge.
Finance costs comprise interest costs on borrowings and finance leases, unwind of the discount on non-current liabilities, interest cost on pension plan liabilities, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives, movement in forward points on outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships and changes in fair value of derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship.
The changes in fair value on derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship and the fair value adjustment on hedged items inafairvalue hedge relationship are separately disclosed in Note 7 under the description IAS 39 fair value remeasurement.
Tax Current tax Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable recoverable in respect of the taxable profit tax loss for a period.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based ontaxrates and laws that are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and itstax base, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting or taxable profit or loss: In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in theforeseeable future: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, tax losses or credits carried forward can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset isrealised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Allocation of tax charge or credit between income statement, other comprehensive income and equity Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case the associated tax isrecognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
EPS measures for continuing operations have been presented in accordance with IAS 33.
The Group also presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying profit before tax as defined in separately disclosed items section above.
Further details ofthe EPS calculation are presented in Note 11.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 131 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3C CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS In applying its accounting policies, the Group has made estimates and assumptions concerning the future, which may differ from the related actual outcomes.
Those estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts ofassets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition A key judgement in recognising revenue is to distinguish where the Groups businesses act in the capacity of principal or agent so to determine the accounting as either gross or net respectively, in line with IAS 18 Revenue Recognition.
The Group exercises judgement to assess principal or agency by considering if it is the prime obligor in all the revenue arrangements, has pricing discretion and is exposed to inventory and credit risk, in which case the Group will be principal to the arrangement.
Residual values of tangible fixed assets Judgements have been made in respect of the residual values and useful economic lives of aircraft included in property, plant and equipment see Note 13.
Those judgements determine the amount of depreciation charged in the income statement.
Impairment of goodwill Judgements have been made in respect of the amounts of future operating cash flows to be generated by certain of the Groups businesses inorder to assess whether there has been any impairment of the amounts included in the balance sheet for goodwill or intangible assets withan indefinite life in relation to those businesses.
Special purpose entities The nature of the relationship with certain special purpose entities involved in leasing aircraft to the Group shows that they should be interpreted as controlled by the Group, and therefore consolidated, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities.
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments Estimates have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order toassess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.
Aircraft maintenance provisions Provisions for the cost of maintaining leased aircraft and spares are based on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of future maintenance costs and planned rollover and renewal of the aircraft fleet.
Tax The Group operates in many tax regimes and the tax implications of its operations are complex.
It can take several years for tax liabilities to beagreed with the relevant authorities.
Tax assets and liabilities represent managements estimates of tax that will be payable or recoverable in the future and may be dependent on estimates of future profitability.
In addition, estimates have been made in respect of the probable future utilisation of tax losses, and deferred tax assets have been recognised as a result.
The recoverability of these assets is dependent on the agreement of the losses with the relevant authorities and the estimates of future profitability.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses previous experience and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates.
The estimates, and the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed in Note 30.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 132 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographic based operating divisions: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe, and Airlines Germany.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Certain residual businesses and corporate functions are not allocated to these divisions and are shown separately as Corporate.
These reportable segments are consistent with how information is presented to the Group Chief Executive chief operating decision maker forthe purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
The primary business of all these operating divisions is the provision of leisure travel services and, accordingly, no separate secondary segmental information is provided.
Segmental information for these activities is presented below: Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total Year ended 30 September 2015 m m m m m m Continuing Operations Revenue Segment sales 2,457 3,449 1,057 1,257 8,220 Inter-segment sales 54 31 16 285 386 Total revenue 2,403 3,418 1,041 972 7,834 Revenue by product Tour Operations 5,789 Airlines 2,806 Other 577 Inter-segment sales 1,338 Total revenue 7,834 Result Underlying profit loss from operations 119 71 96 56 32 310 Separately disclosed items 41 30 1 2 16 90 Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles 7 2 9 Segment result 71 39 95 54 48 211 Share of results of associates 1 Profit on sale of associated undertaking 7 Finance income 10 Finance costs 179 Profit before tax 50 Tax 31 Profit for the year 19 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 133 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total m m m m m m Other information Capital additions 86 26 84 68 37 301 Depreciation 49 6 18 72 145 Amortisation of intangible assets 10 11 1 8 30 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 7 2 9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 3,134 3,770 1,486 1,226 8,115 17,731 Inter-segment eliminations 11,977 5,754 Investments in associates and joint ventures 4 Tax and deferred tax assets 200 Total assets 5,958 Liabilities Segment liabilities 3,333 2,299 864 916 8,160 15,572 Inter-segment eliminations 11,512 4,060 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 90 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,440 Total liabilities 5,590 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, revenue received in advance and provisions.
Capital additions comprise additions to other intangible assets note 12 and property, plant and equipment note 13.
The entity is domiciled in the UK.
Revenue from external customers in the UK was 2,355m 2014: 2,539m which is derived from the UK segmental revenue shown above but excluding external revenue in Ireland and Spain-domiciled companies, which would otherwise be included in the UK segment.
Revenue from external customers in Germany was 2,918m 2014: 3,747m.
The total non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax there are no employment benefits assets or rights arising under insurance contracts, located in the UK was 1,944m 2014: 1,720m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total Year ended 30 September 2014 m m m m m m Continuing Operations Revenue Segment sales 2,585 3,958 1,153 1,299 8,995 Inter-segment sales 56 26 8 317 407 Total revenue 2,529 3,932 1,145 982 8,588 Revenue by product Tour Operations 7,096 Airlines 2,912 Other 589 Intercompany sales 2,009 Total revenue 8,588 Result Underlying profit loss from operations 89 102 101 50 19 323 Separately disclosed items 95 41 16 69 221 Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles 48 2 50 Segment result 54 59 101 34 88 52 Share of results of associates 2 Finance income 10 Finance costs 178 Loss before tax 114 Tax 1 Loss for the year 115 Other information Capital additions 54 20 15 82 13 184 Depreciation 43 7 17 78 1 146 Amortisation of intangible assets 11 11 1 4 27 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 6 3 9 Impairment of other intangible assets 1 1 2 Impairment of goodwill 41 41 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 135 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total m m m m m m Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 2,638 3,665 1,523 1,145 7,249 16,220 Inter-segment eliminations 10,640 5,580 Investments in associates and joint ventures 14 Tax and deferred tax assets 200 Total assets 5,794 Liabilities Segment liabilities 2,833 2,322 919 776 7,487 14,337 Inter-segment eliminations 10,258 4,079 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 85 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,345 Total liabilities 5,509 5 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 740 792 Social security costs 91 98 Share-based payments equity settled see note 29 1 4 Defined benefit pension costs see note 30 13 3 Defined contribution pension costs see note 30 41 42 886 939 The monthly average number of employees of the Group during the year was: 2015 2014 Number Number UK 8,985 9,720 Continental Europe 6,473 6,568 Northern Europe 3,089 3,120 Airlines Germany 2,989 2,997 Corporate 277 267 21,813 22,672 Disclosures of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are on pages 96 to 104 within the Remuneration report and form part of these audited financial statements.
Disclosures in respect of remuneration of key management personnel are included in note 31.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 136 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 OPERATING EXPENSES 2015 2014 m m Advertising expenses 121 144 Rents and expenses for building maintenance 101 110 Information technology and telecommunication costs 138 161 Travel expenses and ancillary personnel expenses 49 54 Legal and consultancy fees 35 81 Impairment of current and non-current assets, excluding goodwill 19 32 Insurance 11 12 Auditors remuneration 4 5 Other operating expenses 34 478 633 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries 2 3 Total audit fees 3 4 Other non-audit services 1 1 Total non-audit services 1 1 Total fees 4 5 Included within Audit of subsidiaries, 0.1m 2014: 0.1m has been incurred in respect of the audits of the Group pension schemes.
Total non-audit services is inclusive of 0.2m in relation to tax services.
Fees paid to the Companys auditors and their associates for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in subsidiaries accounts since the consolidated accounts of the subsidiaries parent, Thomas Cook Group plc, are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 79 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 137 7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS Re-presented 2015 2014 m m Affecting profit from operations Reorganisation and restructuring costs 52 110 Reassessment of contingent consideration 18 Impairment of goodwill and asset valuation reviews 57 Onerous contracts and legal disputes 35 79 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 9 9 Provision for tax dispute resolution 2 Other 21 18 99 271 Affecting income from associates Profit on disposal of associates 7 7 Affecting finance income and costs Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs 7 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation 12 15 Unwind of discount on non-current liabilities 9 10 28 25 Total separately disclosed items 120 296 2m of forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts has been re-presented from finance costs to cost of providing tourism services and 14m of loss on disposal of assets has been reclassified from restructuring costs to other.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs of 52 million include 25m in relation to implementation costs associated with delivering the New Operating Model NUMO.
In addition, there have been Group-wide restructuring costs of 27m.
Reassessment of contingent consideration In line with IFRS, the Group reassessed the carrying value of a contingent obligation to acquire from the Co-operative Group and CentralEngland Co-operative their shares in the UK retail joint venture.
The reassessment resulted in a reduction of 18m to the liability.
Goodwill impairment and asset valuation reviews The prior year balance principally relates to pre-disposal goodwill impairment of 41m.
Onerous contracts and legal disputes During the year the Group has assessed its position in respect of certain onerous contracts and made appropriate adjustments to assets on the balance sheet and made provision for future losses under these contracts.
The charge primarily comprises an onerous lease of 9 million.
In relation to onerous contracts identified in prior years, the Group has recognised a final 24 million non-cash charge in respect of a UK outsourcing contract that concluded in June 2015.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Groupplc and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
Provision for tax dispute resolution In FY14 there was a release of 2m to a provision held on a sales tax judgement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 138 138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS CONTINUED Other This amount includes loss on the disposal of assets as well as 6m gain from the movement in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships.
Finance related charges The Group has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately disclosed circumstances, primarily deferred acquisition consideration.
A notional interest charge of 9m on the discounted value of such liabilities is recognised within separately disclosed finance related charges.
During the year 7m of facility fees have been written off.
Interest income and charges arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is 12m.
8 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS Re-presented 2015 2014 m m Underlying finance income Income from loans included in financial assets 1 1 Other interest and similar income 9 9 10 10 Underlying finance costs Bank and Bond interest 95 89 Fee amortisation 8 9 Letters of Credit 15 17 Other interest payable 16 17 134 132 Underlying aircraft related finance costs Interest payable 3 4 Finance costs in respect of finance leases 14 17 17 21 Underlying finance cost 151 153 Net underlying Interest 141 143 Separately disclosed finance costs Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs 7 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation note 30 12 15 Unwind of discount on non-current liabilities 9 10 28 25 Total net interest 169 168 Other interest payable includes fair value gain of 1m 2014: 14m gain on hedging instruments and fair value loss of 1m 2014: 12m loss on hedged items in fair value hedges.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 139 9 TAX 2015 2014 m m Analysis of tax charge Current tax Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 29 23 adjustments in respect of prior periods 2 6 Total current tax 27 17 Deferred tax tax charge credit 4 16 Total deferred tax 4 16 Total tax charge 31 1 The tax on the Groups profit loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK standard corporation tax rate applicable to profits of the company as follows: 2015 2014 m m Tax reconciliation Profit loss before tax 50 114 Expected tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.5% 2014: 22% 10 25 Income not liable for tax 15 6 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 13 30 Impairment for which no tax relief is due 9 Losses and other timing differences for which tax relief is not available 21 31 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 4 Recognition of losses not previously recognised 41 56 Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised 10 18 Difference in rates of tax suffered on overseas earnings 9 7 Impact of changes in tax rates 1 5 Other 2 1 Income tax charge in respect of prior periods 21 9 Tax charge 31 1 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes and the fair value of derivative financial instruments of 6m has been credited directly to equity 2014: credit of 9m.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.5% 2014: 22% of the estimated assessable profit loss for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Surplus losses not recognised in deferred tax of 1,935m 2014: 2,340m are available predominantly in the UK, France and Spain for offset against future profits.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 140 0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 DIVIDENDS No dividends were declared during the year ended 30 September 2015 2014: nil.
11 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculations for earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares, are shown in the table below.
The weighted average number of shares shown excludes 9 million shares held by the employee share ownership trusts 2014: 21m.
2015 2014 Basic and diluted loss earnings loss share m m Net profit attributable to the owners of the parent 23 118 2015 2014 millions millions Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings loss per share 1,487 1,440 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings loss per share 1,487 1,464 2015 2014 pence pence Basic and diluted earnings loss per share 1.6 8.2 2015 2014 Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share m m Underlying net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 132 163 2015 2014 pence pence Underlying basic earnings per share 8.9 11.3 Underlying diluted earnings per share 8.9 11.1 Awards of shares under the Thomas Cook Performance Share Plan, Buy As You Earn Scheme, Restricted Share Scheme and Co-Investment Plan will be satisfied by shares held in trust and therefore are potentially dilutive.
The remainder of the share schemes will be satisfied by the purchase of existing shares in the market and will therefore not result in any dilution of earnings per share.
Underlying net profit attributable to owners of the parent is derived from the continuing pre-exceptional profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 170m 2014: 182m and then deducting anotional tax charge of 42m 2014: 16m, and taking into account non-controlling interests.
indd 141 06 01 2016 13:07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 142 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED The carrying value of goodwill is analysed by business segment as follows: 2015 2014 m m UK 1,602 1,631 Continental Europe 155 159 Northern Europe 613 659 Airlines Germany 18 20 2,388 2,469 Goodwill Impairment Testing In accordance with accounting standards, the Group tests the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances change.
Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of each cash-generating unit CGU to the recoverable amount, determined on the basis of the CGUs value in use.
The value in use is based on the net present value of future cash flow projections discounted at pre-taxrates appropriate for each CGU.
The Groups CGUs are determined by geographical market and consist of: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines Germany.
The future cash flow projections used to determine the value in use are based on the most recent annual budgets and three-year plans for each of the CGUs.
The key assumptions used to determine the business budget and three-year plans relate to capacity and the pricing of accommodation and fuel inputs.
Capacity is based on managements view of market demand and the constraints to managing capacity such as aircraft lease commitments.
The accommodation pricing is primarily driven by the underlying bed rate and the foreign exchange hedges in place.
The former is based on the businesses ongoing dialogue with bed suppliers and local cost inflation.
The fuel pricing assumption is primarily driven by the fuel hedges in place and the forward fuel curve at the time that the budget is set.
The key assumptions used to determine the Independent business budget and three-year plans relate to passenger volumes and commission rates, and are based on theindividual businesses view of the market conditions.
Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the three-year plan are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate of 2%.
A pre-tax discount rate of between 10.4% 10.9% reflecting the specific risks of each CGU is used to calculate the value in use for each oftheCGUs.
Sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed as management believe that any reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the carryingvalue of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 143 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Other property, plant and equipment Aircraft and Freehold land Short Other Other fixed assets Total aircraft spares and buildings leaseholds m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2013 1,227 153 145 197 495 Additions 117 1 7 19 27 Reclassification 2 2 15 7 6 Disposals 60 32 40 72 Exchange differences 154 11 4 6 21 At 30 September 2014 1,128 141 131 163 435 Additions 193 18 7 14 39 Reclassification 4 4 4 7 7 Disposals 87 5 6 2 9 Exchange differences 55 6 3 9 18 At 30 September 2015 1,175 152 125 177 454 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2013 624 55 104 138 297 Charge for the year 123 4 8 11 23 Reclassifications 13 3 3 6 Disposals 58 23 32 55 Exchange differences 126 6 3 4 13 At 30 September 2014 550 53 89 116 258 Charge for the year 125 2 7 11 20 Provision for impairment 1 1 Reclassifications 9 11 2 9 Disposals 81 5 5 4 6 Exchange differences 33 3 2 7 12 At 30 September 2015 570 47 79 126 252 Carrying amount At 30 September 2015 605 105 46 51 202 At 30 September 2014 578 88 42 47 177 12 Notes 1 16 p122 p146 v60.
indd 143 06 01 2016 13:07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 144 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Freehold land with a cost of 30m 2014: 24m has not been depreciated.
The net book value of aircraft and aircraft spares includes 300m 2014: 270m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The net book value of other property, plant and equipment includes 23m 2014: 10m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation of the owned assets during the year was 74m 2014: 85m.
Depreciation for property, plant and equipment held under finance lease was 70m 2014: 61m.
2015 2014 Capital commitments m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in the accounts 15 28 The Group is contractually committed to the acquisition of four new Airbus A321 aircraft as at 30 September 2015, which had a list price of $96m each at the time of commitment, before escalations and discounts.
All are intended to be financed by sale and leaseback at the point of delivery in 2016.
Leases for all of the aircraft were signed as at 30 September 2015, subject to the purchase taking place, and the operating lease commitment included in Note 27.
14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES 2015 2014 m m Cost At 1 October 2014 36 38 Disposals 10 Groups share of associates profit for the year 1 2 Dividend received from associate 2 Exchange differences 2 2 At 30 September 2014 25 36 Amounts written off or provided At 1 October 2014 22 24 Exchange differences 1 2 At 30 September 2015 21 22 Carrying amount 4 14 Associated undertakings Investments in associates at 30 September 2015 included a 40% interest in Activos Turisticos S. A, an incoming agency and hotel company basedin Palma fide Mallorca, Spain.
Hotelera Adeje S. L. a hotel company based in Santa Cruz, Tenerife was disposed of during the year generating a profit on sale of 7m.
indd 144 06 01 2016 13:07 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 145 14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES CONTINUED Summarised financial information in respect of the associated undertakings is as follows: 2015 2014 Associates Associates m m Total assets 76 80 Total liabilities 18 22 Net assets 58 58 Groups share of net assets 4 16 Revenue 39 43 Profit for the year 4 4 Groups share of associates profit for the year 1 2 The financial statements of the associated undertakings are made up at different times to that of the Group.
For the purposes of applying theequity method of accounting the most recent financial statements of these undertakings and the management accounts are used to drawup the financial position and performance of each associate.
15 INVENTORIES 2015 2014 m m Goods held for resale 9 10 Airline spares and other operating inventories 23 24 32 34 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense was 130m 2014: 185m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 146 146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets Trade receivables 1 Other receivables 6 13 Deposits and prepayments 46 91 Loans 2 2 55 106 Current assets Trade receivables 201 252 Other receivables 47 44 Deposits and prepayments 317 390 Loans 4 4 Other taxes 16 14 Amounts owed by associates and participations 1 585 705 The average credit period taken on invoicing of leisure travel services is 10 days 2014: 11 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
The credit risk in respect of direct receivables from customers is limited as payment is required in full before the services are provided.
In the case of travel services sold by third-party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third-parties, but this risk is also limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
The Groups current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in advance.
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during those periods.
Deposits and prepayments also include 36m 2014: 53m of deposits on aircraft lease arrangements.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Allowances for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed in the business units where the debts arise and are based on local management experience.
Factors that are considered include the age of the debt, previous experience with the counterparty and local trading conditions.
Trade receivables arise from individual customers as well as businesses in the travel sector.
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 147 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Movement in allowances for doubtful receivables 2015 2014 m m At beginning of year 38 44 Additional provisions 9 14 Exchange differences 1 Receivables written off 9 12 Unused amounts released 8 8 At end of year 29 38 At the year end, trade and other receivables of 88m 2014: 69m were past due but not impaired.
The analysis of the age of these financial assets is set out below: Ageing analysis of overdue trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Less than one month overdue 42 42 Between one and three months overdue 15 15 Between three and 12 months overdue 21 10 More than 12 months overdue 10 2 88 69 Trade and other receivables are not subject to restrictions on title and no collateral is held as security.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values.
17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 573 403 Term deposits with a maturity of less than three months 728 616 1,301 1,019 Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise bank balances denominated in Sterling, Euro and other currencies for the purpose of settling current liabilities as well as balances arising from agency collection on behalf of the Groups travel agencies.
Included within the above balance are the following amounts considered to be restricted: 7m 2014: 38m held within escrow accounts in respect of local regulatory requirements: 18m 2014: 18m of cash held by White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, and Voyager Android Insurance Services the Groups captive insurance companies: and 1m 2014: 1m of cash held in countries where exchange control restrictions are in force.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets approximate to their fair value.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148 148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2015 2014 m m Current liabilities Trade payables 1,401 1,268 Amounts owed to associates and participations 1 2 Social security and other taxes 46 56 Accruals and deferred income 400 613 Other payables 131 144 1,979 2,083 Non-current liabilities Accruals and deferred income 1 2 Other payables 78 88 79 90 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 83 days 2014: 72 days.
Included within the other payables non-current liabilities of 78m is 73m 2014: 82m that represents the carrying value of the contingent obligation to acquire from The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative now Central England Co-operative their shares representinga33.5% ownership interest, formed by the merger of the three companies high street retail stores in 2012.
The discounted obligation was recognised at the time of the merger and its fair value is subsequently reassessed at each period end as the minority shareholders have the right, after 30 September 2016, to require the Company to acquire their shares, see note 21.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
19 BORROWINGS 2015 2014 m m Short-term borrowings Unsecured bank loans and other borrowings 171 82 Unsecured bank overdrafts 14 2 185 84 Current portion of long-term borrowings 34 365 219 449 Long-term borrowings Bank loans and bonds repayable within one year 34 365 repayable between one and five years 734 308 repayable after five years 304 407 1,072 1,080 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities 34 365 Amount due for settlement after one year 1,038 715 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 149 19 BORROWINGS CONTINUED Borrowings by class 2015 2014 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Group committed credit facility including transaction costs 8 12 Aircraft-related bank loans including transaction costs 50 49 53 11 Commercial paper 155 82 Other bank borrowings 14 21 412 Issued bonds including transaction costs 976 310 704 219 1,038 449 715 The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups borrowings with a carrying value of 1,257m is 1,307m 2014: carrying value 1,164m: fairvalue 1,227m.
1,032m 2014: 1,077m of the fair value which relates to issued bonds has been calculated using quoted market prices.
For all other borrowings, the Directors consider that the fair value of 275m 2014: 150m is approximate to the carrying amount.
In 2015, theGroup has 101m as security to aircraft 2014: 63m and 21m as a security to property 2014:14m.
During the year 8m 2014: 9m of the capitalised transaction costs relating to banking facilities have been recognised within finance costs inthe income statement and 7m relating to the write off of old facility fees is included within separately disclosed items.
The Group has completed three major financing transactions during the year, including: the issue of a 400m Eurobond in January 2015 with a coupon of 6.75% which matures in June 2021: a tender offer in February 2015 in respect of our 400m 6.75% June 2015 notes, of which 29% were purchased ahead with the balance redeemed in full at the maturity date : and a new 800m four year banking facility in May 2015 maturing in May 2019 to replace prior facilities.
Borrowing facilities As at 30 September 2015, the Group had undrawn committed debt facilities of 453m 2014: 297m and undrawn committed debt facilities pluscash available to repay revolving credit facility of 1,682m 2014: 1,168m.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
The Group has complied with its financial covenants throughout the year.
Covenant measures The covenant measures are tested on a quarterly rolling 12 month basis and consist of a leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant.
The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating lease rentals compared to net debt.
The fixed charge covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease charges compared to net interest and operating lease charges.
The leverage and fixed charge covenant hurdles vary depending on the period that they relate to and range between 1.21x to 3.46x and 1.78x to 2.16x respectively.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 150 0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 48 47 35 34 Between one and five years 145 148 121 119 After five years 32 35 27 28 225 230 183 181 Less: future finance charges 42 49 Present value of lease obligations 183 181 183 181 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 35 34 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 148 147 The currency analysis of amounts payable under finance leases is: 2015 2014 m m Euro 11 13 US dollar 172 168 183 181 Finance leases principally relate to aircraft and aircraft spares.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups finance lease obligations with a carrying value of 183m was 191m at 30 September 2015 2014: carrying value 181m: fair value 181m.
The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the interest rates for the corresponding terms to repayment as at the year end.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 151 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Carrying values of financial assets and liabilities The carrying values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014 are as set out below: 2015 2014 Derivative Derivative instruments Financial instruments Financial Fair value in designated liabilities at Fair value in designated liabilities at through profit hedging Loans & amortised through profit hedging Loans & amortised or loss relationships receivables cost or loss relationships receivables cost At 30 September 2015 m m m m m m m m Trade and other receivables 323 397 Cash and cash equivalents 1,301 1,019 Trade and other payables 73 1,846 82 1,816 Borrowings 1,257 1,164 Obligations under finance leases 183 181 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 345 371 Derivative financial instruments 5 75 5 23 68 75 1,624 3,631 87 23 1,416 3,532 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative financial instruments were: Interest rate Currency Fuel swaps contracts contracts Total m m m m At 1 October 2013 5 38 1 42 Movement in fair value during the year 16 80 36 60 At 1 October 2014 11 42 35 18 Movement in fair value during the year 42 130 88 At 30 September 2015 11 84 165 70 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 15 19 Current assets 114 68 Current liabilities 176 66 Non-current liabilities 23 3 70 18 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 152 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fair value hierarchy The fair value of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in hierarchy levels depending on the valuation method applied.
The differentmethods are defined as follows: Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments Level 2: valued using techniques based on information that can be obtained from observable market data Level 3: valued using techniques incorporating information other than observable market data as at least one input to the valuation cannotbe based on observable market data.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out below: 2015 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Currency contracts 106 106 72 72 Fuel contracts 12 12 4 4 Interest rate swaps 11 11 11 11 Financial liabilities Currency contracts 22 22 30 30 Fuel contracts 176 176 39 39 Contingent consideration 73 73 82 82 At 30 September 70 73 143 18 82 64 The fair values of financial instruments have been calculated using discounted cash flow analysis.
The contingent consideration represents the carrying value of the contingent obligation to acquire from The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative now Central England Co-operative their shares and is included in Other payables refer to Note 18 Trade and Other payables.
The carrying value reported is the fair value of the consideration calculated at each year end using the Financial Dividend model.
The fair value is the net present value of the Groups forecasted cash outflows arising from final dividend and exit payment of 4 x EBITDA, discounted at the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The cash outflows are dependent on EBITDA for financial year 2015-16 and a 5% change in EBITDA will result in a 0.3m change in fair value decrease in fair value liability and corresponding gain in profit before tax arising from increase in EBITDA of this level 3 financial instrument.
Similarly a 1% change in discount rate will result in 1.1m change in fair value decrease in fair value liability and corresponding gain in profit before tax arising from increase in discount rate.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge material future transactions and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group enters into foreign currency forward contracts, swaps and options in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
The fairvalueof currency contracts designated in a cash flow hedge as at 30 September 2015 was an asset of 78m 2014: 47m asset.
Currency hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of the forecasted requirement.
As at 30 September 2015, theGrouphad in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of February 2017 2014: February 2016 The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel.
The Group enters into fixedprice contracts swaps and net purchased options in the management of its fuel price exposures.
All fuel hedges are designated ascashflow hedges.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 153 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fuel price hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of forecasted consumption of fuel.
Trades with maturities longer than 18 months need additional approval in line with treasury policy.
As at 30 September 2015, the Group had in place fuel price hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of March 2017 2014: April 2016.
In addition, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with the financing of aircraft and other assets and to hedge against interest rate exposures on fixed rate debt.
The Group also enters into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and the currency exposure on foreign currency external borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency contracts in designated fair valuehedge relationships at 30 September 2015 was an asset of 11m 2014: 11m asset.
As at 30 September 2015, the maximum maturity of interest rate derivatives was June 2020 2014: June 2020.
The fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments have been calculated using underlying market prices available on 30 September 2015.
During the year, a loss of 88m 2014: 45m loss was transferred from the hedge reserve to the income statement following recognition of the hedged transactions.
The amount included in each line item in the income statement is shown below.
In addition, a gain of 1m was recognised in the income statement in respect of the forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2014: 2m loss and a gain of 5m in respect of the movement in the time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships 2014: 2m loss.
Re-presented 2015 2014 m m Cost of providing tourism services: release from hedge reserve 88 45 time value on options 5 2 forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 1 2 Finance income costs : fair value movements on derivatives in designated fair value hedge 1 11 During the year a gain of nil 2014: 27m loss was taken directly to the income statement in respect of held for trading derivatives that are used to hedge Group balance sheet exposure.
The closing hedging reserve, excluding the impact of tax, was a loss of 122m 2014: 13m gain.
The periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur and when they are expected to impact the income statement are a loss of 103m 2014: 7m gain within one year and alossof 19m 2014: 6m gain between one and five years.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 154 154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts of Gross amounts of recognised financial recognised financial Cash collateral recognised financial liabilities set off in assets presented in Financial assets the balance sheet the balance sheet Instruments received Net Amount m As at 30 September 2015 m m m m m Derivatives financial assets 129 129 85 44 Derivatives financial liabilities 199 199 85 114 Cash and cash equivalents 1,305 4 1,301 1,301 Bank overdrafts 18 4 14 14 Total 1,217 1,217 1,217 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts of Gross amounts of recognised financial recognised financial recognised financial liabilities set off in assets presented in Financial Cash collateral assets the balance sheet the balance sheet Instruments received Net Amount As at 30 September 2014 m m m m m m Derivatives financial assets 87 87 47 40 Derivatives financial liabilities 69 69 47 22 Cash and cash equivalents 1,665 646 1,019 1,019 Bank overdrafts 648 646 2 2 Total 1,035 1,035 1,035 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
22 FINANCIAL RISK The Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, fuel prices, liquidity and counterparty credit within the framework of its business operations.
Interest rate risk The Group is subject to risks arising from interest rate movements in connection with the issue of Eurobonds, bank debt, aircraft financing andcash investments.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage these risks and are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has activities in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
These risks arise in connection with the procurement of services in destinations outside the source market.
For example, US Dollar exposure arises on the procurement of fuel and operating supplies for aircraft, as well as investments in aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect the commercial risk of each underlying business.
Each segmental hedging policy includes the hedging build up and permitted instruments.
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season.
The Group uses currency forwards, currency swaps and currency options to manage transactional currency risks and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group does not hedge translation exposures arising from profits generated outside the UK.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 155 22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Fuel price risk Exposure to fuel price risk arises due to flying costs incurred by the Groups aircraft.
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and in general each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season.
The Group uses commodity derivative contracts, including fixed price contracts swaps and net purchased options to manage fuel price riskand these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The market risks that the Group is subject to have been identified as interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and fuel price risk.
The impact of reasonably possible changes in these risk variables on the Group, based on the period end holdings of financial instruments have been calculated and are set out in the tables below.
In each case it has been assumed that all other variables remain constant.
As at30 September 2015, the sensitivity of these risks to the defined scenario changes are set out below: Interest rate risk 2015 2014 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 1% 2014: 1% increase in interest rates 8 6 0.25% 2014: 0.25% decrease in interest rates 2 1 Foreign exchange rate risk 2015 2014 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 5% 2014: 5% strengthening of Euro 6 28 1 17 5% 2014: 5% weakening of Euro 6 27 16 5% 2014: 5% strengthening of US Dollar 7 77 5 70 5% 2014: 5% weakening of US Dollar 6 74 4 65 Fuel price risk 2015 2014 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 10% 2014: 10% increase in fuel price 56 352 10% 2014: 10% decrease in fuel price 56 3 52 Given recent historical movements in fuel prices management believe a 10% shift is a reasonable possibility.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 156 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Liquidity risk The liquidity position of the Group is significantly influenced by the booking and payment pattern of customers.
As a result, liquidity is at its lowest in the winter months and at its highest in the summer months.
The Group manages the seasonal nature of its liquidity by making use of its bank facility, the terms of which, including the covenant measures, are detailed in the borrowings Note refer to note 19.
The Group also uses liquidity swaps to manage short-term currency positions.
These liquidity swaps are presented as held-for-trading financial instruments The undrawn committed debt facility plus the cash available ranged between 200m and 1,682m during the current financial year 2014: 169m 1,168m.
Surplus short-term liquidity is invested in accordance with approved treasury policy.
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the period end and their contractual maturity.
The amounts shown are estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value.
Amount due 2015 Amount due 2014 between between in less than 3 and 12 between in more than in less than 3 and 12 between in more than 1 and 5 years 5 years Total 3 months months 1 and 5 years 5 years Total 3 months months At 30 September 2015 m m m m m m m m m m Trade and other payables 1,549 287 81 2 1,919 1,576 230 88 4 1,898 Borrowings 194 29 931 428 1,582 95 380 365 587 1,427 Obligations under finance leases 12 36 145 32 225 12 34 148 35 229 Derivative financial instruments: payable 699 1,724 541 2,964 681 1,311 388 2,380 receivable 703 1,646 532 2,881 686 1,311 401 2,398 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 59 63 121 102 345 72 157 77 65 371 1,810 493 1,287 564 4,154 1,750 801 665 691 3,907 For all gross settled derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts and swaps, the pay and receive leg has been disclosed in the table above.
For net settled derivative financial instruments, such as fuel swaps and options, the fair value as at the year end of those instruments in a liability position has been disclosed in the table above.
Trade and other payables include non-financial liabilities of 142m 2014: 277m which have not been analysed above.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to deposits, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables.
The maximum exposure in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is the carrying value.
The Group assesses its counterparty credit risk exposure in relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts and undrawn credit facilities.
The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and to define the credit limit for each counterparty in accordance with approved treasury policies.
The Groups approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in note 16.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 157 23 INSURANCE Management of insurance risk Incidental to its main business, the Group, through its subsidiary White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, issues contracts that transfer significant insurance risk and that are classified as insurance contracts.
As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance riskthe possibility of having to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.
Business written includes standard commercial risks for the Group and travel insurance for both Group and non-Group customers.
The principal nature of travel insurance risks is one of short-term, low value and high volume.
Underwriting performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and pricing reviewed annually for each individual contract.
Exposure is capped by specific limits within the insurance policy and by using reinsurance contracts for any claims in excess of these retention limits.
Commercial policies have been fully commuted at the year end.
Insurance risk is spread across several European countries where the Group operates including the UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.
When estimating the cost of claims outstanding at the year end, the principal assumption underlying the estimates is the Groups past development pattern.
This includes assumptions in respect of historic claims costs, average claims handling expenses and market developments.
The Group also uses an independent actuary to review its liabilities to ensure that the carrying values are adequate.
Any changes to these variables are not expected to have a material effect on the Group financial statements.
The Group operates a reinsurance policy approved by the White Horse Insurance Ireland Ltd Board of Directors which ensures that reinsurers have a financial stability rating of A S&P.
The Group has assessed these credit ratings as being satisfactory in diminishing the Groups exposure to the credit risk of its insurance receivables.
24 DEFERRED TAX The following are the deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current reporting year: Aircraft Retirement Fair value Other finance benefit of financial temporary leases obligations instruments differences Tax losses Total m m m m m m At 1 October 2014 62 56 4 23 179 146 Credit charge to income 4 3 6 39 34 4 Credit to equity 20 24 2 6 Reclassifications 1 2 2 2 1 Exchange differences 4 2 3 3 2 At 30 September 2015 55 35 16 57 212 151 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 197 195 Deferred tax liabilities 46 49 151 146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 158 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of 2,844m 2014: 3,150m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised to the extent that business plans evidence future taxable profits against which the assets may be recovered.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses of 1,935m 2014: 2,340m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Other temporary differences on which deferred tax has been provided primarily relate to the difference in book to tax value on qualifying tax assets, provisions for which tax relief was not originally available, and fair value accounting on assets acquired.
In addition, the Group had unused other temporary differences amounting to 339m 2014: 295m for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Deferred tax liabilities were offset against the corresponding deferred tax assets as appropriate within territories.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% effective from 1 April 2015 to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
This will reduce the groups UK deferred tax asset at 30 September 2015 which has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date by 5m.
25 PROVISIONS Aircraft Reorganisation maintenance Off-market Insurance and and restructuring Other provisions leases litigation plans provisions Total m m m m m m At 1 October 2014 234 15 90 23 28 390 Additional provisions in the year 125 6 62 8 10 211 Unused amounts released in the year 30 2 3 7 2 40 Unwinding of discount 4 1 5 Utilisation of provisions 87 13 73 17 12 202 Exchange differences 5 1 1 7 At 30 September 2015 241 11 75 6 24 357 Included in current liabilities 147 Included in non-current liabilities 210 At 30 September 2015 357 Included in current liabilities 247 Included in non-current liabilities 143 At 30 September 2014 390 The aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance on leased aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines in respect of leases which include contractual return conditions.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of the aircraft with major overhauls typically occurring between two and ten years.
The aircraft maintenance provisions are re-assessed at least annually in the normal course of business with a corresponding adjustment made to either non-current assets aircraft and aircraft spares or aircraft costs.
Off-market leases relate to leases acquired through the Resorts Mallorca Hotels International S. L. U Hi!Hotels acquisition and certain office locations which have commitments in excess of the market rate at the time of the transaction.
Insurance and litigation represents costs related to legal disputes, customer compensation claims including EU261 and estimated costs arising through insurance contracts in the Groups subsidiary, White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited.
Reorganisation and restructuring plans predominantly represent committed restructuring costs in the UK and Continental segments.
Other represents liabilities where there is uncertainty of the timing or amount of the future expenditure required in settlement and includes such items as onerous contracts, dilapidations and emissions trading liabilities.
This grouping contains no single amount larger than 6m.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 159 26 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares of 0.01 each of 0.09 each of 1 each, 25p paid of 0.01 each of 0.09 each m m m At 1 October 2013 1,453,403,227 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 Exercise of Warrants 7,373,186 At 30 September 2014 1,460,776,413 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 Exercise of Warrants 1,939,126 Issue of shares 73,135,777 At 30 September 2015 1,535,851,316 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the sterling-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the holders of the euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each euro-denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary Shares and sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in aggregate, the amounts paid upthereon.
The holders of both classes of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares As at 30 September 2015, options to subscribe for ordinary shares were outstanding with respect to the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan.
For further details refer to Note 29.
On exercise, the awards of shares under the plan will be satisfied by either purchases in the market of existing shares or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.
A new financing facility consisting of 500 million revolving credit facility and 300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facility was agreed on 19 May 2015.
Under the old financing agreement there remained unexercised Warrants in issue to certain lenders giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe to an aggregate of 1,939,126 Ordinary Shares.
All remaining Warrants in issue under the old financing agreement were exercised during the year.
For further information on the financing facilities please refer to the Governance other disclosures section of the annual report on pages 105 to 107.
Own shares held in trust Shares of the Company are held under trust by EES Trustees International Limited in respect of the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited hold shares in connection with the Thomas Cook Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme.
In accordance with IFRS, these are treated as Treasury Shares and are included in other reserves in the balance sheet.
The number of shares held at 30 September 2015 by EES Trustees International Limited and Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited was 9,103,314 2014: 20,865,104 and 350,328 2014: 381,015 respectively.
The cumulative cost of acquisition of these shares was 14m 2014: 30m and the market value at 30 September 2015 was 11m 2014: 25m.
Shares held by the trust have been excluded from the weighted average number ofshares used in the calculation of earnings per share.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns forshareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent asshown in the Group balance sheet.
At the balance sheet date the Group had total capital of 479m 2014: 573m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 160 0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS The Group as lessee At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Property Aircraft and Property Aircraft and and other aircraft spares Total and other aircraft spares Total 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m m m Within one year 58 125 183 72 96 168 Later than one and less than five years 143 563 706 178 357 535 After five years 140 467 607 146 473 619 341 1,155 1,496 396 926 1,322 Operating lease rentals payable charged to the income statement for hire of aircraft and aircraft spares was 135m 2014: 106m and other 90m 2014: 102m.
Operating lease payments principally relate to rentals payable for the Groups retail shop and hotel properties and for aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines.
Shop leases are typically negotiated for an average term of 5 years.
Leases for new aircraft aretypically negotiated for an average term of 12 years, leases for second hand aircraft and extensions are typically considerably shorter.
28 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2015 2014 m m Contingent liabilities 114 102 Contingent liabilities primarily comprise guarantees, letters of credit and other contingent liabilities, including contingent liabilities related to structured aircraft leases, all of which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The amounts disclosed above represent the Groups contractual exposure.
The Group complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts and has all the necessary licences for the various sales markets.
The customers right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts paid in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in all Thomas Cook sales markets in line with local legislation and within the various guarantee systems applied.
In the United Kingdom, there is a fund mechanism whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking.
Customer rights in relation to Thomas Cook Group in Germany, Belgium and Austria are guaranteed via an insolvency insurance system, in Ireland, Scandinavia and France viaguarantees provided by banks and insurance companies, and in the Netherlands via a guaranteed fund.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to commercial disputes and litigation including customer claims, employee disputes, taxes and other kinds of lawsuits.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on best estimates and management judgement but there can be no guarantee that these provisions will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
There are also contingent liabilities in respect of litigation for which no provisions are made.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 161 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment schemes, as outlined below.
The total charge recognised during the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 1m 2014: 4m charge.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan PSP Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the ordinary shares of the Company.
The awards will vest if performance targets are met during the three years following the date of grant.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan COIP Executive Directors and senior executives may be required to purchase the Companys shares using a proportion of their net bonus Lodged Shares.
For each Lodged Share purchased, participants may receive Matching Shares if performance targets are met during the three years following the date of grant.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 HM Revenue & Customs Approved Buy As You Earn Scheme BAYE Eligible UK tax-paying employees are offered the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by deduction from their monthly gross pay.
For every 10 shares an employee buys, the Company will purchase one matching share on their behalf.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2011 Restricted Share Plan RSP Senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the ordinary shares of the Company.
Executive Directors are excluded from receiving awards under the RSP.
The Company will determine at the date of award whether the award will be subject to a performance target and the date of vesting.
The Thomas Cook 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Executive Directors and a small number of senior Executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted contingent share awards of the ordinary shares of the Company, relating to a proportion of their annual bonus.
Awards are subject to forfeiture if a clawback event occurs during the period that the award is held.
The movements in options and awards during the year in relation to the PSP and the other awards were: 2015 PSP Other At 1 October 2014 30,487,662 4,307,753 Granted 11,163,840 679,417 Exercised 8,961,220 2,945,360 Lapsed 7,224,426 330,318 Outstanding at 30 September 2015 25,465,856 1,711,492 Exercisable at end of year 5,018,980 23,240 Exercise price nil nil Average remaining contractual life years 1.4 1.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 162 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2015 was 1.33.
2014 PSP Other At 1 October 2013 31,899,162 5,440,212 Granted 3,451,942 2,267,869 Exercised 807,281 688,342 Lapsed 2,851,735 1,929,368 Cancelled 244,642 Forfeited 1,204,426 537,976 Outstanding at 30 September 2014 30,487,662 4,307,753 Exercisable at end of year 95,653 58,260 Exercise price nil 1.77 Average remaining contractual life years 1.3 2.2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2014 was 1.64 The fair value of options and awards subject to Group EBIT and cash conversion targets was determined by the use of Black-Scholes models and the fair value of options subject to TSR performance targets was determined by the use of Monte Carlo simulations.
For options and awards granted during the year the key inputs to the models were: 2015 2014 PSP PSP Weighted average share price at measurement date 1.49 1.45 Weighted average exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 43% 40% Weighted average option life years 3 3 Weighted average risk-free rate 0.9% 1.30% Expected dividend yield nil 0 Weighted average fair value at date of grant 1.04 1.02 Expected volatility has been based on the historic volatility of the Companys shares and the shares of other companies in the same orrelated sectors.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 163 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Pension schemes for the employees of the Thomas Cook Group consist of defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, with the defined benefit plans being both funded and unfunded.
The obligations arising from defined contribution plans are satisfied by contribution payments to both private and state-run insurance providers.
2015 2014 m m Present value of funded obligations 1,063 1,119 Fair value of plan assets 1,104 1,001 Surplus deficit of funded plans 41 118 Present value of unfunded obligations 320 329 Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 279 447 Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations primarily relate to the Groups employees in the German businesses of Thomas Cook AG and the Condor Group.
Provisions are established on the basis of commitments made to those employees for old-age and transitional pensions based on the legal, tax and economic circumstances of the individual countries and on the period of employment and level of remuneration of the respective employees.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations totalling 270m 2014: 277m were attributable to the pension commitments of the Condor Group Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Condor Berlin GmbH and CF GmbH.
For employees who joined a Condor Group company prior to 1995, the total pension commitment of the pensions authority of the German federal government and regional states was adjusted and maintained in the form of a company pension scheme.
The flight crews were additionally entitled to a transitional provision for the period between the termination of their in-flight employment and the time they became eligible for a state-run or company pension.
In both cases, the benefit commitment depended on the final salaries of the employees concerned prior to the termination of their in-flight employment final salary plan.
Employees who joined a Condor Group company from 1995 onwards participate in a company pension scheme under which the pension entitlements are based on the average salaries of those employees average salary plan.
The Condor Group also has retirement obligations arising from individual commitments and transitional provisions.
In accordance with IAS 19, all these commitments are classified as unfunded defined benefit obligations and classified as such in these financial statements.
The Condor Group defined benefit plans have been closed to new entrants with the exception of pilots since 2004.
There are additional unfunded defined benefit obligations comprising individual commitments to executive staff at Thomas Cook Group and obligations in respect of past service for employees in the Northern Europe and Continental Europe segments.
The unfunded pension schemes are accounted for as part of liabilities for retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet.
The following weighted average actuarial assumptions were made for the purpose of determining the unfunded defined benefit obligations: 2015 2014 % % Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.68% 2.71% Expected rate of salary increases 2.56% 2.54% Future pension increases 1.52% 1.53% The mortality tables 2005 G drawn up by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck were used, for the German pension schemes, as the basis for the mortality assumptions used in arriving at the present value of the pension obligations at 30 September 2015.
These assume a life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 19 years for men and 23 years for women.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 164 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Changes in the present value of unfunded pension obligations were as follows: 2015 2014 m m At beginning of year 329 296 Current service cost 11 10 Past service cost 6 Interest expense 8 10 Benefits paid 7 7 Settlements 1 5 Effect of experience adjustments and demographic assumptions 5 2 Effect of financial assumptions 2 62 Business combinations 5 Exchange difference 17 24 At end of year 320 329 These amounts have been recognised in the income statement.
Service costs, gains on settlement and curtailment gains have been included in personnel expenses in the income statement and the unwinding of the discount rate of the expected retirement benefit obligations has been included in finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Funded defined benefit pension obligation The pension entitlements of employees of Thomas Cook UK and employees in Norway and the Netherlands are provided through funded defined benefit schemes, where pension contributions are paid over to the schemes and the assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
These schemes are closed to new entrants and continue to accrue future benefits for existing active members.
The plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on a members length of service and their salary in the final years of active membership.
In the UK plans, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with retail price index, pensions in deferment are generally updated in line with consumer price index.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries in each country.
The fair value of the pension assets in each scheme at the year end is compared with the present value of the retirement benefit obligations and the net difference reported as a pension asset or retirement benefit obligation as appropriate.
Pension assets are only recognised to the extent that they will result in reimbursements being made or future payments being reduced.
The funded defined benefit obligation primarily relates to the Thomas Cook UK Pension Plan.
The assumptions used in arriving at the present value of the obligations at 30 September 2015 have been updated following the 2014 triennial actuarial funding valuation.
The mortality assumptions used in arriving at the present value of those obligations at 30 September 2015 are based on the S1PA pensioner tables with 2012 CMI projection model with a long term trend rate of 1.5% for males and 1.25% for females.
The mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 23.6 years for men and 25.6 years for women.
The Company and Board of trustees are responsible for governance of the plans and ensuring it is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefits.
The trustees appoint advisers to carry out the administration, actuarial work and investment advice.
Following the 2014 actuarial valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan, the Recovery Plan agreed with the pension trustees to fund the actuarial deficit was extended.
In line with that agreement, during the year ended 30 September 2015 Thomas Cook UK paid instalments totalling 26m in line with the recovery plan.
The valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan at 30 September 2015 resulted in a surplus of 50m, this is included within the net Group pension deficit of 279m.
The 50m has been disclosed as a pension asset in the statement of financial position.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 165 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: Present value of obligation 2015 2014 m m At beginning of year 1,119 998 Current service cost 1 Past service cost 2 Interest expense 44 45 44 44 Remeasurements: Loss from change in demographic assumptions 16 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 28 104 Experience gains losses 63 2 75 106 Exchange differences 3 2 Payments from plans: Settlement payments 6 Benefit payments 28 21 At end of year 1,063 1,119 2015 2014 Fair value of plan assets m m At beginning of year 1,001 889 Interest income 40 40 40 40 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 65 75 65 75 Exchange differences 1 3 Expenses paid 3 2 Contributions: Employers 28 29 Payments from plans: Settlement payments 6 Benefit payments 28 21 At end of year 1,104 1,001 Surplus deficit of funded plan 41 118 These amounts have been recognised in the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 166 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The weighted average actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2015 2014 % % Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.86% 3.89% Inflation rate RPI 2.96% 3.15% The average mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of22.2years for men and 24.7 years for women.
2015 2014 Quoted Non-quoted Total Quoted Non-quoted Total m m m % m m m % Plan assets are comprised as follows: Cash and cash equivalents 9 9 1 12 12 1 Equity instruments 83 83 8 280 280 28 Debt instruments 330 330 30 249 249 25 Real estate 57 57 5 86 86 9 Derivatives 451 451 41 117 117 12 Investment funds 146 146 13 230 230 23 Assets held by insurance company 325 28 2 324 27 2 Total 1,07925 1,104100 977 24 1,001 100 The scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the Group.
The Scheme currently has part of its assets invested in a liability driven investment portfolio.
These assets, in combination with the other protection assets in the portfolio, provide interest rate and inflation rate protection.
Sensitivities of the defined benefit obligation The group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, thiswill create a deficit.
However, the group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 167 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Change in Increase in Decrease in Impact on defined benefit obligation: assumption assumption assumption Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.25% -5% 5% Inflation rate 0.25% 3% -3% Mortality 1 year 3% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The expected future benefit payments are detailed below: Less than a year Between 12 years Between 25 years Over 5 years At 30 September 2015 m m m m Pension benefit payments 29 10 33 65 Defined contribution schemes There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group, the principal scheme being the Thomas Cook UK DC Pension Scheme, which is open to all UK employees.
Cash contributions paid into the defined benefit schemes are accounted for as an income statement expense as they are incurred.
The total charge for the year in respect of this and other defined contribution schemes, including liabilities in respect ofinsured benefits relating to workers compensation arrangements, amounted to 23m 2014: 42m.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Interest in subsidiaries are set out in Note 19 in the Companys separate financial statements.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Associates and participations 2015 2014 m m Sale of goods and services 6 8 Purchases of goods and services 7 11 Other income 1 3 Amounts owed by related parties 1 1 Amounts owed to related parties 1 2 Participations are equity investments where the Group has a significant equity participation but which are not considered to be associates.
All transactions are considered to have been made at market prices.
Outstanding amounts will normally be settled by cash payment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 168 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED Remuneration of key management personnel Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration report onpages88to104.
2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 5 Share-based payments 11 16 5
