Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation ofthe Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated consolidated financial statements include: anddomiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is Depreciation and amortisation Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
The financial year represents the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015 The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over their estimated prior financial year 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014.
the Republic of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014.
Impairment For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended a Impairment of goodwill 28 February 2015 prior calendar year ended 28 February 2014.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units are based on the higher The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal.
These calculations require are those of retailing and retail banking.
the use of estimates as set out in Note 10.
Basis of preparation b Impairment of assets The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit for accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as impairment testing.
Where there are indicators of impairment, the Group endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act performs an impairment test.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group units are based on the higher ofvalue in use and fair value less costs of financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections generally to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except over five years using data from the Groups latestinternal forecasts, and for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty extrapolated beyond five years using estimated long-term growth rates.
programmes and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
These calculations require the use of estimates asset out in Note 11.
Fair value is determined by independent, professional valuers where appropriate.
Discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued c Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks operations, the net results of the Chinese and US operations for the 13 weeks The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred ended 28 May 2014 and the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015, respectively, impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables are presented within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement and carried at amortised cost.
These calculations require the use of estimates and the assets and liabilities of these operations are presented separately in as set out in the accounting policy note for impairment of loans and the Group Balance Sheet.
See Note 7 for further details.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all Commercial income periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for the amount and timing of recognition of commercial income may require the exercise of judgement.
The key estimates and judgements Basis of consolidation made in the recognition of commercial income are as follows: The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities volume-related allowances relate to amounts receivable by the Group controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of for achieving agreed purchase or sales targets within a set period.
Where its interests in joint ventures and associates.
volume-related allowances span different accounting periods, the amount of income recognised in each period is estimated based on the probability Subsidiaries that the Group will meet contractual target volumes based on historical Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from and forecast performance: and the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
promotional, marketing and other allowances cover amounts receivable by the Group to support the promotion, marketing and advertising of Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and specific items including promotional pricing discounts, in-store displays, expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing margin protection and cost reimbursements.
There is limited judgement the consolidated financial statements.
or estimation involved in recognising income for these allowances.
The group assesses its performance against the obligations conditional on Joint ventures and associates earning the income, with the income recognised either over time as the The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under IFRS 11 obligations are met, or recognised at the point when all obligations are Joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
This met, dependent on the contractual requirements.
assessment required the exercise of judgement as set out in Note 13.
Refer to Note 3, Note 15, Note 16 and Note 19 for additional income statement The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in and balance sheet disclosure.
the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Other Comprehensive Income using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures Provisions and associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition Provisions have been made for property contracts, dilapidations, restructuring, changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment post-employment benefits and customer redress.
These provisions are estimates in value.
The carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent include acquired goodwill.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise Property provisions further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so ormade payments Property provisions comprise onerous lease provisions, including leases on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
on unprofitable stores and vacant properties, and other onerous contracts related to property.
These provisions are based on the least net cost of Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates fulfilling or exiting the contract.
are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
The calculation of the value in use of the leased property to the Group Use of assumptions and estimates is based on the same assumptions for discount rates, growth rates and expected The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires change in margins as those for Group owned properties, as discussed in detail management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect in Note 11.
The calculations also assume that the Group can sublet properties the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income at market rents.
For some leases, termination of the lease at the break clause and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical requires the Group to either purchase the property or buy out the equity experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under ownership of the property at fair value.
No value is attributed to the purchase the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates conditions since they are at fair value.
It is also assumed that the Group and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
is indifferent to purchasing the properties.
88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Provisions relating to Tesco Bank IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities, includes the disclosure The Group has provisions for potential customer redress.
In 2010 11, requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including the Financial Conduct Authority FCA formally issued Policy Statement subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities: 10 12 PS 10 12, which introduced new guidance in respect of Payment IAS 32 Amended Financial instruments: Presentation clarifies some Protection Insurance PPI customer redress and evidential provisions to of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities the FCA Handbook with an implementation date of 1 December 2010. on the balance sheet: and TheGroup continues to handle complaints and redress customers in IAS 36 Amended Impairment of assets removed certain disclosures accordance with PS 10 12. of the recoverable amount of cash generating units which had been included by the issue of IFRS 13.
During the course of the prior financial year the Group instigated a review of certain historic operational issues that had resulted in instances where Revenue certain of the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act CCA for post Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for contract documentation had not been fully complied with.
In November 2013 the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
the Office of Fair Trading OFT wrote to lenders in the industry seeking confirmation of their compliance with the requirements of the CCA.
The Sale of goods Group extended its earlier investigation to undertake further assurance work Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership relating to compliance with the CCA.
As a result, the Group determined that of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue it was appropriate to redress certain customers affected by these breaches.
Extensive analysis has been undertaken of the relevant issues to identify where Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
customers have been affected and to determine if the Group should take further action.
The requirements of the CCA in respect to these issues are not Provision of services straightforward and have not been subject to significant judicial consideration Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service is to date.
In arriving at the provision required, the Group considered the legal provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms and regulatory position with respect to these matters and has sought legal of the contract.
advice which it took into account when it made its judgement.
The provision represents managements best estimate at the reporting date of the cost Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the of providing redress to those loan and credit card customers.
In making the commission income is included within revenue.
estimate, management have exercised judgement as to both the timescale for implementing the redress campaign and the final scope of any amounts Financial services payable.
The OFT and the FCA have been advised of the Groups approach Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of insurance.
to determining the proposed customer redress.
Oversight of CCA-related matters passed from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014.
Customer redress Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and payments commenced in October 2014 and it is expected that these will receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
continue into the first half of the next financial year.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable The Group is part of an industry-wide Scheme of Arrangement established that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts with the support of the relevant regulatory and customer protection bodies on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
to address customer redress relating to the historic sale of certain cardholder protection products CPP to credit card customers.
Another industry-wide Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment and Scheme of Arrangement has been established to compensate those customers ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through who were sold a similar product in earlier years.
The level of provision held the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally is based on assumptions relating to the number and value of cases for which contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service compensation may be paid.
In arriving at these assumptions management is rendered.
have exercised their judgement based on earlier redress programmes including the CPP Scheme of Arrangement and historic customer payment The Group generates commission from the sale and service of motor and information.
The level of the provision allows for the repayment of charges home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in paid by the customer together with simple interest of 8.0%.
a minority of cases by a third party underwriter.
This is based on commission rates which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance Inventories policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of An inventory provision is booked for cases where the realisable value from sale white label insurance products underwritten by other third party providers.
of the inventory is estimated to be lower than the inventory carrying value.
The inventory provision is estimated taking into account various factors, including Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives prevailing sales prices of inventory item, the seasonality of the items sales The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the profile and losses associated with slow moving inventory items.
consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction Post-employment benefit obligations from revenue.
The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using anumber The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the netcost income value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
Key assumptions for post-employment benefit obligations are disclosed Rental income in Note 26.
Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance with the terms of the lease.
Adoption of new and amended International Financial Reporting Standards Commercial income The Group has adopted the following new and amended standards as of Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has agreements with 23 February 2014: suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, promotional and marketing allowances and various other fees and discounts are received in connection IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
Most of the income by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether received from suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price of a product, an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that product.
It also provides additional guidance to assist in the Sometimes receipt of the income is conditional on the Group performing determination of control where this is difficult to assess: specified actions or satisfying certain performance conditions associated IFRS 11 Joint arrangements gives a more realistic reflection of joint with the purchase of the product.
These include achieving agreed purchases arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the or sales volume targets and providing promotional or marketing materials arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are now only two types and activities or promotional product positioning.
Whilst there is no standard of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures: definition, these amounts receivable from suppliers in connection with the purchase of goods for resale are generally termed commercial income.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired at occurs when all obligations conditional for earning income have been 2.5% of cost: discharged, and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are of the contract.
The income is recognised as a credit within cost of sales.
depreciated by equal annual instalments over the unexpired Where the income earned relates to inventories which are held by the Group period of the lease: and at period ends, the income is included within the cost of those inventories, plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates and recognised in cost of sales upon sale of those inventories.
Amounts due relating to commercial income are recognised within other Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful receivables, except in cases where the Group currently has a legally enforceable lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term right of set-off and intends to offset amounts due from suppliers against amounts of the relevant lease.
owed to those suppliers, in which case only the net amount receivable or payable is recognised.
Accrued commercial income is recognised within accrued income Impairment of non-financial assets when commercial income earned has not been invoiced at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill Finance income relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is disposal, and value in use.
When the recoverable amount of the cashrecognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss ratemethod.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Finance costs Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there are take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Statement in finance the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial liabilities is determined from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Business combinations and goodwill The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the acquisition costs of disposal.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
Non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately or associate and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
as a credit to the Group Income Statement.
If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity i. e. a discount Investment property on acquisition, the difference is credited to the Group Income Statement in Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and the period of acquisition.
any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation policies for investment property are consistent with those described for owner-occupied property.
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit Short-term and other investments from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level at which Short-term and other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Intangible assets Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Acquired intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, Inventories customer relationships, contracts and brands are measured initially at cost.
Inventories comprise goods and development properties held for resale.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair Inventories arevalued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are using the weighted average cost basis.
Directly attributable costs and carried at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated incomes including applicable commercial income are included in the useful lives, at 2%100% of cost per annum.
Internally generated intangible assets research and Cash and cash equivalents development expenditure Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure incurred bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to banks, on an individual project is capitalised only if specific criteria are met including certificate of deposits and other receivables together with short-term that the asset created will probably generate future economic benefits.
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations isamortised over the assets estimated useful life at 10%25% of cost Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale perannum.
when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the Property, plant and equipment lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Property, plant and Leases equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual value over its Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease anticipated useful economic life.
The following depreciation rates are applied transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
for the Group: All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Refer to Note 34 for 90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued additional disclosures on judgements made relating to operating leases Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that including those arising from sale and leasebacks.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group as a lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases tobe recovered.
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there The Group as a lessee is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets againstcurrent Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these onanet basis.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding Foreign currencies liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Group rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Group Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged Income Statement.
to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Pounds Sterling at exchange rates prevailing Sale and leaseback at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: profits and losses are translated A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset ataverage exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease differences arising are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive with the buyer.
Income and are included in the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expensesin the period in which the The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the operation is disposed of.
substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification principles described above whether or not the sale was made at the assets fairvalue Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign and the relationship with the buyer which is based on levels of control and entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated influence the buyer may be an associate, joint venture or an unrelated party.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred and Financial instruments amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group Balance the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Post-employment and similar obligations Trade receivables For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately method, less provision for impairment.
in the Group Income Statement: service costs are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and financing costs are recognised Investments in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as immediately in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the as they fall due.
security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income Share-based payments is included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
Interest calculated The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the Group Income using the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to the Group Statement.
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognised Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is in the Group Income Statement when the entitys right to receive payment adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Taxation Loans and advances to customers The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of current Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related and deferred tax.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, losses.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
basis and is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Tax expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Impairment of loans and advances to customers Income or directly in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its it is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that those in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts orgroup of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been incurred, of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the used for taxation purposes.
carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Impairment substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually orcredited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to items significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, inwhich making collective assessments of impairment, financial assets are grouped case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or other comprehensive into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows income, respectively.
from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of current observable gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly data, to reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the period in other comprehensive income.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and comprehensive income and recognised in the Group Income Statement thecarrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects is reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a the Group Income Statement.
The classification of the effective portion when subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the recognised in the Group Income Statement is the same as the classification reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the remeasurement of the the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group hedge is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount finance income or costs.
using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking into At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and recognised in equity is retained in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors in establishing until the forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects these provisions are the expected loss rates.
If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group The portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal advances.
Statement of Changes in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported Net investment hedging loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive Interest-bearing borrowings income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestincome are included in the Group Income Statement when the foreign bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between operation is disposed of.
proceeds and redemption value being recognised in the Group Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase Trade payables the remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective The net present value of the expected future payments are shown as a interest method.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in the Group Income Statement Equity instruments within finance income or costs.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the balance sheet when there is a current legally enforceable right to offset The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis toforeign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold orissue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes: however, Provisions ifderivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to for assuch.
be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on recognised as interest expense.
remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item the unavoidable costs of meeting or exiting the lease obligations exceed the being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Fair value hedging Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that aredesignated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedging Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any 92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Standards issued but not yet effective IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following for pensions.
Under IAS 19, the cost of providing pension benefits in the standards were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates these standards in the preparation of the financial statements, and has applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
Corporate bond not adopted any new or amended standards early: yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
IAS 19 also increases the IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for periods commencing charge for young pension schemes, such as the Groups, by requiring the on or after 1 January 2018 subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 9 is use of rates which do not take into account the future expected returns on a replacement for IAS 39 Financial Instruments and covers three distinct the assets held in the pension scheme which will fund pension liabilities as areas.
Phase 1 contains new requirements for the classification and they fall due.
The sum of these two effects can make the IAS 19 charge measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
Phase 2 relates to the disproportionately higher and more volatile than the cash contributions impairment of financial assets and requires the calculation of impairment the Group is required to make in order to fund all future liabilities.
on an expected loss basis rather than the current incurred loss basis.
Phase Therefore, within underlying profit the Group has included the normal 3 relates to less stringent requirements for general hedge accounting: and cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to IFRS 15, Revenues from Contracts with Customers, replaces IAS 18, represent what the Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of Revenues, and introduces a five step approach to revenue recognition providing post-employment benefits: based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
The International IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods.
Accounting Standards Board IASB has proposed to issue some clarifications Some operating leases have been structured in a way to increase annual and to defer the standards effective date of 1 January 2017 to 1 January lease costs as the businesses expand.
IAS 17 requires the total expected cost 2018.
The effective date for the Group is also subject to EU endorsement.
of a lease to be recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, irrespective of the actual timing of the cost.
This adjustment also The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption impacts the Groups operating profit and rental income within the share of these standards is still under review.
of post-tax profits ofjoint ventures and associates: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation Use of non-GAAP measures charges and costs arising from acquisitions.
Under IFRS 3 intangible assets Free cash flow are separately identified and fair valued.
The intangible assets are required Free cash flow is net cash generated from used in operating activities to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and as such is less capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment a non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying performance of the property and intangible assets.
Similarly, the standard requires all acquisition costs to be expensed in the Group Income Statement.
Due to their nature, these costs Net debt have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the underlying performance of the Group: discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards.
finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture The interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset to be measured as a separate component of a sales transaction.
by cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
The underlying profit measure removes this fair value allocation to present underlying business performance, and to reflect the Trading profit performance of the operating segments as measured by management: Trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures restructuring and other one-off items.
These relate to certain costs the performance of each segment before profits losses arising on associated with the Groups restructuring activities and certain one-off property-related items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and costs including costs relating to fair valuing the assets of a disposal group.
rent-free periods, intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising These have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect from acquisitions, and goodwill impairment and restructuring and other the underlying performance of the Group: and one-off items.
The IAS 19 pension charge is replaced with the normal profits losses from property-related items.
These relate to the Groups cash contributions for pensions.
An adjustment is also made for the fair property activities including gains and losses on disposal of property assets, value of customer loyalty awards.
development property built for resale and property joint ventures: costs resulting from changes in the Groups store portfolio and distribution Underlying net interest network, including pre-opening and post closure costs: and income Underlying net interest, as included in underlying profit, excludes charges associated with impairment of non-trading property and related net pension finance costs and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair onerous contracts.
These have been excluded from underlying profit value measurements.
as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying profit before tax The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
These measures are used for performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted profit measures.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
Tax impact on non-GAAP measures is included within Note 9.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements.
Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under IAS 39 and when practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable to apply hedge accounting to the arrangements but continues to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty or active management of the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The Group believes these arrangements remain effective and economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability to apply hedge accounting.
Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging arrangements, the reported results reflect the movement in fair value of related derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
In addition, at each year end, any gain or loss accruing on open contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the financial year, regardless of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on termination.
This may mean that the Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile.
The underlying profit measure removes this volatility to help better identify the underlying performance of the Group: Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 93
