Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial calendar Financial year end 2014 15 28 February 2015 Annual General Meeting 1Q interim management statement 26 June 2015 Half-year end 2015 16 29 August 2015 Interim results 7 October 2015 3Q and Christmas interim management statement 14 January 2016 Financial year end 2015 16 27 February 2016 Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change, with the exception of the financial year end.
Glossary Capex % of sales Retail cash flow Capital expenditure as defined below, divided by Group sales including Cash generated from used in operations for retail activities.
Return on capital employed Capital expenditure Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed.
The additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
Return Profit excluding the impact of one-off items before interest after tax Constant tax rate applied at effective rate of tax.
Using the prior years effective tax rate.
Capital employed EBITDAR Net assets excluding the impact of one-off items plus net debt plus Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, rent and movements dividend creditor less net assets held for resale and discontinued operations.
in impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets.
Total indebtedness Net debt plus the IAS19 deficit in the pension schemes net of associated Fixed charge cover deferred tax plus the present value of future minimum rentals payable under The ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR divided by financing non-cancellable operating leases.
costs net interest including capitalised interest and excluding IAS 32 and 39 impacts and pension finance costs plus operating lease expenses.
Total shareholder return The notional annualised return from a share, measured as the percentage Free cash flow change in the share price, plus the dividends paid with the gross dividends Free cash flow is net cash generated from used in operating activities less reinvested in Tesco shares.
This is measured over both a one and five-year capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, investment property period.
For example, five-year total shareholder return for 2013 14 is the and intangible assets.
annualised growth in the share price from 2008 09 and dividends paid and reinvested in Tesco shares, as a percentage of the 2008 09 share price.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Trading profit Trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures the Growth in sales performance of each segment before profits losses arising on property-related The YoY% movement in sales for continuing operations excluding VAT items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, excluding PFS and excluding IFRIC 13 for 52 weeks at constant fx rates.
intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions, and goodwill impairment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
The IAS 19 Growth in trading profit pension charge is replaced with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
The YoY% movement in trading profit for continuing operations for 52 weeks An adjustment is also made for the fair value of customer loyalty awards.
Underlying diluted earnings per share Loyal customers Underlying profit less tax at the effective tax rate and non-controlling interest Loyal customers are defined based on their frequency of spend and average divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during weekly spend in our stores and online shopping over eight weeks.
Net debt Underlying net interest Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the Underlying net interest, as included in underlying profit, excludes net pension discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, finance costs and IAS 39 Finance Instruments fair value measurements.
finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset by Underlying profit before tax cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Underlying profit before tax excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and 39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free Net indebtedness periods, pension costs, and the marking to market of financial instruments : The ratio of total indebtedness divided by EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition and EBITDAR from continuing operations.
acquisition costs, and the non-cash impact of IFRIC 13.
It also excludes profits losses on property-related items and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 155
