Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation investing activities.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared on a going concern instruments for trading purposes.
basis using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with generally accepted accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Where principles UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006.
The Parent Companys derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on principal accounting policies have been applied consistently during the year.
remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Company Profit and Loss Account.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any The financial year represents the 53 weeks to 28 February 2015 prior financial year resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the 52 weeks to 22 February 2014. items being hedged.
A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set outbelow.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required to document from inception, the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging Exemptions instrument.
The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a Profit and Loss Account for the instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going Company alone.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures exemption and not provided derivative financial instrument disclosures Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year from of the Company alone.
the balance sheet date are disclosed as falling due after more than one year.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures Fair value hedging from disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned entities within the Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge Tesco Group.
the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value Short-term investments hedges are recorded in the Company Profit and Loss Account, together with any Current asset investments relate to money market deposits which are recognised changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost.
All income from these investments is included in the Profit and Loss Account as interest receivable and Cash flow hedging similar income.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative Foreign currencies instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of transaction.
At the balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the in the Company Profit and Loss Account in the same period during which the balance sheet date.
hedged transaction affects the Company Profit and Loss Account.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Company Profit and Loss Account Share-based payments is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date using re-measurement criteria of the derivative instrument which does not meet the the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to the Profit and Loss criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Company Profit Account over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect and Loss Account.
expected and actual levels of vesting.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Where the Company awards shares or options to employees of subsidiary entities, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or is fide-designated.
this is treated as a capital contribution.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs or the Financial instruments original hedged item affects the Company Profit and Loss Account.
If a forecasted Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss Balance Sheet when the Company becomes party to the contractual recognised in equity is transferred to the Company Profit and Loss Account.
Pensions Debtors The Company participates in the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme and cannot identify Debtors are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Accordingly, as using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
permitted by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company has accounted for the scheme as a defined contribution scheme, and the charge for the period is based Financial liabilities and equity instruments upon the cash contributions payable.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract Taxation that gives a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit for the year, using the tax liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
received, net of direct issue costs.
The Company may surrender Group relief to group companies and consequently Borrowings there may be no tax charge in the Profit and Loss Account Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at the value of the amount received, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost but not reversed at the balance sheet date and would give rise to an obligation to with any differences between cost and redemption value being recognised pay more or less tax in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent in the Company Profit and Loss Account over theperiod of the borrowings that they are recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on on an effective interest basis.
the basis of all available evidence, it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying Other creditors timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted Other creditors are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing cost using the effective interest rate method.
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, financing and 140 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
