Corporate governance report continued Given the substantial changes in the composition of the Committee it was decided that it would not be appropriate for a formal review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee to take place this year.
The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year taking into account in all instances the views of the Companys external auditors.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are detailed below: Significant financial statement reporting issues Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the The Committee reviewed managements assessment of going concern with consideration of forecast cash flows, including sensitivity to trading financial statements and expenditure plans and potential mitigating actions.
The Committee also considered the availability of financing facilities in light of the Companys downgraded credit ratings and the capital and liquidity plans of Tesco Bank.
Based on this the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Recognition of commercial The Group has policies in place for the recognition of commercial income as disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The overstatement income of historical commercial income reported in the half year to 23 August 2014, led to a significant increase in focus on this area during the year.
The Committee considered the activities that management carried out to address this issue together with the outcomes of investigations by internal audit and external third party experts, and concurred with managements assessment that adequate training and processes were implemented to address compliance to policy and appropriate recognition of commercial income.
See Note 3 and front half of the financial statements.
Restatement of prior year The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the need to restate prior year comparatives in light of the prior year errors identified comparatives during the year.
The Committee considered managements evaluation of the impact of these errors, on both prior year and current year performance and or position, including the potential impact on user perceptions.
The Committee concurred with management that the nature and impact of the errors were not material to either prior year comparatives or current year reporting, and that correcting the errors in the current year accompanied by adequate presentation and disclosure was the appropriate treatment.
Fixed asset impairment and The Committee reviewed managements impairment testing of property assets and estimate of onerous lease provisions for unprofitable assets onerous lease provisions in light of the competitive environment and reduction in profitability in most markets, particularly the UK.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of key assumptions and methodologies for both value in use models and fair value measurements.
This included challenging cashflows, growth rates and discount rates and the use of independent third party valuations.
The Group has recognised a 3,266 million impairment of trading stores, and a further 903 million charge for closed stores, investments, WIP, intangibles and head office properties, together with an onerous lease provision of 669 million in the year.
See Note 11 to the financial statements for Fixed assets impairment, and Note 24 for Property Provisions.
Goodwill impairment The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill for potential impairment.
This included challenging the key assumptions, principally cash flow forecasts, growth rates and discount rates.
The Group has recognised a goodwill impairment of 116 million.
See Note 10 to the financial statements.
Valuation of China associate The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the valuation of the Groups China associate, Gain Land, covering the methodology and assumptions used by management including latest market information and independent valuation experts, in determining the fair value of the investment.
This included review of Gain Lands projected cashflows, growth rates and discount rates used, and the external market indicators to include in the valuation.
Following this exercise, a 630 million write-down to fair value was recognised at year end.
See Note 3 to the financial statements.
Provisions The Committee considered the judgements made by management in arriving at the restructuring provisions for head office and stores structures, and concurred with managements assessment to recognise a restructuring provision of 325 million.
See Note 24 to the financial statements.
The Committee further considered managements assessment of the status of the ongoing regulatory investigations and litigation relating to the prior period and forecasting errors.
The Committee concurred with managements assessment that due to the early stage of these matters and the uncertainties regarding the outcomes, no provision was required, and disclosure as contingent liabilities at year end was appropriate.
See Note 32 to the financial statements.
Valuation and provisioning The Committee reviewed managements judgements in assessing the required level of inventories provisioning, including adopting a of inventories forward looking provisioning methodology based on recent sales activities, in light of the competitive environment and changes to range and stockholding.
This resulted in a 402 million charge in the income statement.
The Committee further reviewed managements approach to identifying the directly attributable overheads capitalised in inventories, and agreed with the exclusion of certain overhead costs amounting to 168 million from the cost of inventories.
Tesco Bank judgemental The Committee reviewed managements judgements made in relation to Tesco Banks provisions for customer redress, loan impairment provisions matters and insurance reserves, covering the estimated provision based on legal advice, estimates of the number and value of cases, and expected outcomes.
The Committee considered the reviews by the Banks own Audit Committee and Board to develop a detailed understanding of the matters.
During the year, an additional 27 million of provisions for customer redress were recognised.
Income statement non-GAAP The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial statements and, in particular, the appropriateness of the presentation of measure presentation one-off items in the calculation of underlying profit.
The Committee reviewed the nature of items identified and concurred with management that the treatment was even-handed, consistent across years and appropriately presented movements on items which have an effect over a number of years.
The total restructuring and other one-off charges for the year was 6,814 million.
Internal and External Audit This relationship is developed and maintained through regular private meetings with both  LLP and the Head of Internal Audit.
Further information regarding the roles of both Internal Audit and External Audit can be found below: Internal Audit Group Audit & Advisory Group Audit & Advisory is an independent review function set up within Tesco as a service to the Board and all levels of management.
Its remit is to provide independent and objective assurance and consulting activity to add value and improve the organisations operations.
It helps the organisation accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Its responsibilities include assessing the key risks of the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control as operated by management.
Management remains responsible for identifying risks and for the design and operation of controls to manage risk.
However, Group Audit & Advisory facilitate the Companys risk management processes with the Board and Audit Committee, by assisting with the annual process to refresh the Groups Key Risk Registers and by assisting the Company in its formulation and reporting of corporate governance policy.
38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
