Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation ofthe Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated consolidated financial statements include: anddomiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is Depreciation and amortisation Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
The financial year represents the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015 The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over their estimated prior financial year 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014.
the Republic of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014.
Impairment For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended a Impairment of goodwill 28 February 2015 prior calendar year ended 28 February 2014.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units are based on the higher The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal.
These calculations require are those of retailing and retail banking.
the use of estimates as set out in Note 10.
Basis of preparation b Impairment of assets The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit for accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as impairment testing.
Where there are indicators of impairment, the Group endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act performs an impairment test.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group units are based on the higher ofvalue in use and fair value less costs of financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections generally to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except over five years using data from the Groups latestinternal forecasts, and for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty extrapolated beyond five years using estimated long-term growth rates.
programmes and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
These calculations require the use of estimates asset out in Note 11.
Fair value is determined by independent, professional valuers where appropriate.
Discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued c Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks operations, the net results of the Chinese and US operations for the 13 weeks The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred ended 28 May 2014 and the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2015, respectively, impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables are presented within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement and carried at amortised cost.
These calculations require the use of estimates and the assets and liabilities of these operations are presented separately in as set out in the accounting policy note for impairment of loans and the Group Balance Sheet.
See Note 7 for further details.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all Commercial income periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for the amount and timing of recognition of commercial income may require the exercise of judgement.
The key estimates and judgements Basis of consolidation made in the recognition of commercial income are as follows: The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities volume-related allowances relate to amounts receivable by the Group controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of for achieving agreed purchase or sales targets within a set period.
Where its interests in joint ventures and associates.
volume-related allowances span different accounting periods, the amount of income recognised in each period is estimated based on the probability Subsidiaries that the Group will meet contractual target volumes based on historical Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from and forecast performance: and the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
promotional, marketing and other allowances cover amounts receivable by the Group to support the promotion, marketing and advertising of Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and specific items including promotional pricing discounts, in-store displays, expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing margin protection and cost reimbursements.
There is limited judgement the consolidated financial statements.
or estimation involved in recognising income for these allowances.
The group assesses its performance against the obligations conditional on Joint ventures and associates earning the income, with the income recognised either over time as the The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under IFRS 11 obligations are met, or recognised at the point when all obligations are Joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
This met, dependent on the contractual requirements.
assessment required the exercise of judgement as set out in Note 13.
Refer to Note 3, Note 15, Note 16 and Note 19 for additional income statement The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included in and balance sheet disclosure.
the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Other Comprehensive Income using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures Provisions and associates are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition Provisions have been made for property contracts, dilapidations, restructuring, changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment post-employment benefits and customer redress.
These provisions are estimates in value.
The carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent include acquired goodwill.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise Property provisions further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so ormade payments Property provisions comprise onerous lease provisions, including leases on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
on unprofitable stores and vacant properties, and other onerous contracts related to property.
These provisions are based on the least net cost of Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates fulfilling or exiting the contract.
are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
The calculation of the value in use of the leased property to the Group Use of assumptions and estimates is based on the same assumptions for discount rates, growth rates and expected The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires change in margins as those for Group owned properties, as discussed in detail management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect in Note 11.
The calculations also assume that the Group can sublet properties the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income at market rents.
For some leases, termination of the lease at the break clause and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical requires the Group to either purchase the property or buy out the equity experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under ownership of the property at fair value.
No value is attributed to the purchase the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates conditions since they are at fair value.
It is also assumed that the Group and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
is indifferent to purchasing the properties.
88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
