TRANSPARENCY DISCLOSURE 3 Transparency Disclosure Bonus payments This represents any bonus paid to The Reports on Payments to Governments Regulations governments during the year, usually as a result of achieving UKRegulations came into force on 1 December 2014 certain milestones, such as a signature bonus, POD bonus andrequire UK companies in the extractive sector to or a production bonus.
publiclydisclose payments made to governments in the Licence fees This represents licence fees, rental fees, countries where they undertake extractive operations.
entryfees and other consideration for licences and or Theregulations implement Chapter 10 of EU Accounting concessions paid for access to an area during the year Directive 2013 34 EU.
withthe exception of signature bonuses which are The UK Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2015, capturedwithin bonus payments.
but Tullow were early adopters of the EU Directive and have Infrastructure improvement payments This represents published our tax payments to governments in full, in its payments made in respect of infrastructure improvements Annual Report and Accounts since 2013.
The 2015 disclosure for projects that are not directly related to oil and gas remains in line with the EU Directive and UK Regulations and activities during the year.
This can be a contractually we have provided additional voluntary disclosure on VAT, obligated payment in a PSC or a discretionary payment stamp duty, withholding tax, PAYE and other taxes.
for building improving local infrastructure such as roads, The payments disclosed are based on where the obligation bridges, ports, schools and hospitals.
for the payment arose: Payments raised at a project level VAT This represents net cash VAT received from paid to have been disclosed at a project level and payments raised at governments during the year.
The amount disclosed is equal a corporate level have been disclosed on that basis.
However, to the VAT return submitted by Tullow to governments with where a payment or a series of related payments do not the cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
exceed 86,000, they are disclosed at a corporate level, It should be noted the operator of a joint venture typically in accordance with the UK Regulations.
The voluntary makes VAT payments in respect of the joint venture as a disclosure has been prepared on a corporate level.
whole and as such where Tullow has a non-operated All of the payments disclosed in accordance with the presence in a country limited VAT will be paid.
Directive have been made to National Governments, either Stamp Duty This includes taxes that are placed on legal directly or through a Ministry or Department of the National documents usually in the transfers of assets or capital.
Government with the exception of Ghana payments in Usually these taxes are reflected in stamp duty returns respect of production entitlements and licence fees which made to governments and are paid shortly after capital are paid to the Ghana National Oil Company.
Our total or assets are transferred.
economic contribution to all stakeholders can be found on page 66.
Detailed disclosure on our 2015 tax payments Withholding tax WHT This represents tax charged on can be found on pages 172 to 175. services, interest, dividends or other distributions of profits.
The amount disclosed is equal to the WHT return submitted Production entitlements in barrels includes non-cash by Tullow to governments with the cash payment made in the royalties and state non-participating interest paid in barrels year the charge is borne.
It should be noted the operator of of oil or gas out of Tullows working interest share of a joint venture typically makes WHT payments in respect of production in a licence.
The figures disclosed are produced the joint venture as a whole and as such where Tullow has a on an entitlement basis rather than a liftings basis.
It does non-operated presence in a country limited WHT will be paid.
not include the Governments or NOCs working interest share of production in a licence.
Production entitlements PAYE & national insurance This represents payroll and have been multiplied by the Groups 2015 average realised oil employer taxes paid such as PAYE and national insurance price $67.0 bbl.
by Tullow as a direct employer.
The amount disclosed is equal to the return submitted by Tullow to governments Income taxes This represents cash tax calculated on the with the cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
basis of profits including income or capital gains.
Income taxes are usually reflected in corporate income tax returns.
Carried interests This comprises payments made under The cash payment of income taxes occurs in the year in a carrying agreement or PSC PSA, by Tullow for the cash which the tax has arisen or up to one year later.
Income settlement of costs owed by a government or national oil taxes also include any cash tax rebates received from the company for their equity interest in a licence.
government or revenue authority during the year.
Income taxes do not include fines and penalties.
Customs duties This represents cash payments made in respect of customs excise import and export duties made Royalties This represents cash royalties paid to during the year including items such as railway levies.
These governments during the year for the extraction of oil or payments typically arise through the import transportation gas.
The terms of the royalties are described within our of goods into a country with the cash payment made in the PSCs and can vary from project to project within one year the charge is borne.
Royalties paid in kind have been recognised within the production entitlements category.
The cash payment of Training allowances This comprises payments made royalties occurs in the year in which the tax has arisen.
in respect of training government or national oil company staff.
This can be in the form of mandatory contractual requirements or discretionary training provided by a company.
