239795 UKCPT pp63-pp66 25 04 2016 11:00 Page 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at the aggregate nominal value of 32,485,312 being approximately offices of Northern Trust International Fund Administration 10 per cent.
of the nominal value of the issued share capital Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter of the Company including treasury shares, as at 20 April Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 3QL on 15 June 2016 at 2016.
10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, Ordinary Resolutions the Law to make market acquisitions within the meaning of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as section 316 I of the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p Ordinary Resolutions: each shares either for retention as treasury shares for future resale of transfer or cancellation, provided that: 1.
To approve and adopt the Report of the Directors and auditor and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be 2015. acquired shall be equal to 14.99 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report passed: other than the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year to 31 December 2015. ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Policy.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 4.
To appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor to the Company until the paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of i an conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
of the average of the middle 5.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock remuneration.
Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is 6.
To elect Mr Ayre as a Director of the Company.
purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock 7.
To re-elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs Platts as a Director of the Company.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion 9.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the 10.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and Special Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under Special Resolutions: the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company Shares pursuant to any such contract.
or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, for cash including by way of a sale of ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares, as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 63 239795 UKCPT pp63-pp66 25 04 2016 11:00 Page 64 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: 8.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak complies with their respective disclosure obligations under and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy By order of the Board is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services held by him or her.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form Trafalgar Court of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the Les Banques power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is St Peter Port signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or Guernsey GY1 3QL authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor Services Date: 20 April 2016 Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 a. m. on 13 June 2016.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have appointed a proxy and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain valid and you may not vote at the meeting unless you have provided a hard copy notice to revoke the proxy to Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day prior to the commencement of the meeting as set out above.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members at the close of business on the day which is two days before the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself.
As at 20 April 2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 1,299,412,465 voting rights.
64 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
