239795 UKCPT pp63-pp66 25 04 2016 11:00 Page 65 Shareholder Information Dividends It is the Directors intention in line with the Companys investment objective to pay an attractive level of dividend income to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
The Directors intend to set the level of dividend after taking into account the long term income return of the Property Portfolio, the diversity and covenant strength of the tenants and the length of the leases of the Properties.
Dividends on the Ordinary Shares are expected to be paid in equal instalments quarterly in respect of each financial year in May, August, November and February.
All dividends will be paid as interim dividends.
Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account rather than by cheque to their registered address can complete a mandate form for the purpose.
Mandates may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
Where dividends are paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered addresses.
Share Price The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in the Financial Times under Investment Companies Conventional Property ICs.
Change of Address Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or other amendment this should be notified to Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the signature of the registered holder.
Shareholder Enquiries Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL.
Additional information regarding the Company may also be found at its website address which is: www.
co. uk Financial Calendar 2016 17 21 April 2016 Announcement of annual results 31 May 2016 Payment of 2016 first interim dividend 15 June 2016 Annual General Meeting August 2016 Payment of 2016 second interim dividend August 2016 Posting of Interim Report November 2016 Payment of 2016 third interim dividend February 2017 Payment of 2016 fourth interim dividend UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 65 239795 UKCPT pp63-pp66 25 04 2016 11:00 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM, Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited, is required to be made available to investors.
Leverage The Companys maximum and average actual leverage levels at 31 December 2015 are shown below: Leverage Exposure Gross Method Commitment Method Maximum Limit 250% 250% Actual 137% 124% For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage of the Companys exposure to its net asset value and is calculated on both a gross and commitment method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
Remuneration The Companys AIFM, Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited SLI CF, is subject to the Remuneration requirements of the AIFM Directive on a proportionate basis in respect of its activities as AIFM for a range of Alternative Investment Funds AIFs.
Total assets under management of SLI CF were 12.04 billion at 31 December 2015, of which 4.58 billion of assets were AIFs subject to the AIFM Directive.
The NAV of the Company was 1.13 billion as at 31 December 2015.
SLI CF does not employ any direct staff.
The board of the AIFM are employees of Standard Life Investments Limited SLI and are subject to the SLI and Standard Life Group policies as regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
SLI is subject to the FCAs Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU Remuneration Requirements under SYSC 19C on a proportionate basis.
The board of SLICF has responsibility for the risk management arrangements as they relate to the AIFM fund range.
The investment processes are subject to the governance structure of SLI and the board of SLI CF monitors the effectiveness in meeting strict criteria at an AIF level.
The board of SLI CF discharges its duties via regular reporting and review at board meetings and via allocation of executive responsibilities, in relation to SLI CF, within the SLI management team.
As noted above, the AIFM does not employ any staff, however, the board of the AIFM has three individuals who are AIFM Remuneration Code Staff AIFM Code Staff, i. e. individuals whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the AIFM, or the AIFs that it manages.
The aggregate remuneration for these three individuals, apportioned for the AIFM duties they have performed for the year 2015 is 429,512.
AIFM Code Staff are monitored in respect of their performance in line with the SLI Remuneration Policy which is designed to meet the regulatory requirements of BIPRU and the AIFM Directive.
The Remuneration Committees of SLI and Standard Life plc review and approve remuneration for AIFM Code Staff.
More information on the remuneration policies of Standard Life plc are disclosed on the following web page: http: www.
html 66 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
