FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her in the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare knowledge: accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, of the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC balanced and understandable, and provides the information entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and loss and cash flows for that year.
performance, business model and strategy: The financial statements which have been prepared in The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and thatall financial statements and Financial Reporting Standard 101 International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 in the andas issued by the International Accounting Standards Board case of the PLC parent company accounts and UK accounting inthecase of the consolidated financial statements, Financial standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS case of the NV parent company accounts, give a true and fair 101 in the case of the PLC parent company accounts and Dutch view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or law in the case of the NV parent company accounts which they loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consider to be applicable have been followed.
consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy and performance of the business and the position of the Group their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also whole, together with a description of the principal risks and have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are uncertainties that they face.
reasonably open tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, and The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 45 and 58. to prevent and detectfraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the GOING CONCERN Independent Auditors reports, ismade with a view to The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities its future development, performance, the financial position of the of the Directors andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described inthe Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
In addition, we A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages 115 to 129 the Groups placedonour website at www.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its The maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility financial risk management objectives: details of its financial of the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit and involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors liquidity risk.
Although not assessed over the same period as the accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred going concern, the viability of the Group has been assessed on to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the pages 53 and 54. website.
Legislation in the UK and the Netherlands governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ The Group has considerable financial resources together with from legislation in other jurisdictions.
established business relationships with many customers and suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure in business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
respect of these responsibilities is made on page 51.
After making enquiries, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing this Annual Report and Accounts.
INTERNAL AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Please refer to pages 53 to 57 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to pages 54 to 57 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
84 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
