Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 123 Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements Statement of accounting policies In respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently across the Group throughout the current and preceding year, is set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
Adoption of new and revised Standards The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing standards and new standards have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the reported results or the financial position: Annual Improvements to IFRS: 2011-2013 cycle The following standards were also adopted in the current year and have had the impact as set out below.
None At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: enhancing disclosures about the Transfers of Financial Assets, enhancing disclosures about offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities and disclosures about the initial application of IFRS 9 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments This will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers This will potentially revise the timing and amount of revenue recognition on some of the Groups contracts.
The Group is assessing the impact of the new standard on its financial statements.
IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivatives and assets held for sale which are measured at fair value.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: has the power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under FRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Introduction 124 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Proxy Board Certain Group companies in the US undertake work of importance to US national security: consequently activities are conducted under foreign ownership regulations which require operation under a Proxy Agreement.
The regulations are intended to insulate these activities from undue foreign influence as a result of foreign ownership.
The entities that are operated under the management of a Proxy Board are ProLogic Inc ProLogic and Advanced Tactical Systems Inc ATS.
The Directors consider that the Group has control over the operating and financial policies and results of these entities, therefore, they are consolidated in the Group consolidated accounts in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity is remeasured to its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Goodwill Goodwill is initially recognised and measured as set out above.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 125 Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from contracts to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contracts in the same way as for long-term contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on long-term contracts see accounting policy Long-term contracts.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Long-term contracts Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer, or when it is considered probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and results are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred, except where they relate to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the expenditure towards which they are intended to contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met and there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received.
Government assistance provided in the form of below market rate of interest loans are treated as government grants.
The benefit of the below market rate of interest is calculated as the difference between the proceeds received and the fair value of the loan and is matched against the related expenditure.
The fair value of the loan is calculated using prevailing market interest rates.
Retirement benefit costs The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development activities is recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefit and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Introduction 126 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Other intangible assets Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset.
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost.
Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised over their remaining estimated useful lives.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, except for goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals under operating leases, where the Group acts as either lessee or lessor, are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis and including an appropriate proportion of overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition and net realisable value.
Provision is made for any obsolete, slow moving or defective items.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in-hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Assets held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 127 Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their fair value.
Loans and overdrafts Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs where there is a facility commitment.
In these circumstances issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the life of the commitment.
Where there is no facility commitment, issue costs are written-off as incurred.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market related conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share option plans and a stochastic model for awards made under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The credits in respect of equity-settled amounts are included in equity.
Provisions Provisions, including property related provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of products under warranty, based on known exposures and historical occurrences.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities and measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the hedged risk.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this income statement volatility.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in the fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Introduction 128 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Derivative financial instruments continued Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges of forecasted future transactions, when the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged items result in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Income statement Additional line items are disclosed in the consolidated income statement when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs.
Exceptional items When items of income or expense are material and they are relevant to an understanding of the entitys financial performance, they are disclosed separately within the financial statements.
Such exceptional items include material costs or reversals arising from a restructuring of the Groups operations, material creation or reversals of provisions, and material litigation settlements.
Non-statutory performance measures In the analysis of the Groups operating results, earnings per share and cash flows, information is presented to provide readers with additional performance indicators that are prepared on a non-statutory basis.
This presentation is regularly reviewed by management to identify items that are unusual and other items relevant to an understanding of the Groups performance and long-term trends with reference to their materiality and nature.
This additional information is not uniformly defined by all Companies and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other organisations.
The non-statutory disclosures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent statutory measure.
Information for separate presentation is considered as follows: Contract losses arising in the ordinary course of trading are not separately presented, however losses and subsequent reversals are separately disclosed in situations of a material dispute which are expected to lead to arbitration or legal proceedings.
Material costs or reversals arising from a significant restructuring of the Groups operations, such as the S3 programme, are presented separately.
Disposals of entities or investments in associates or joint ventures, or impairments of related assets are presented separately.
The amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and impairment of goodwill or intangible assets are presented separately.
Other matters arising due to the Groups acquisitions such as adjustments to contingent consideration, payment of retention bonuses, acquisition costs and fair value adjustments for acquired inventory made in accordance with IFRS 13 are separately disclosed in aggregate.
Furthermore, IAS 37 requires the Group to discount provisions using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability, this discount unwind is presented separately when the provision relates to acquisition contingent consideration.
Derivative instruments used to manage the Groups foreign exchange exposures are fair valued in accordance with IAS 39.
This creates volatility in the valuation of the outstanding instruments as exchange rates move over time.
This has minimal impact on profit over the full term of the instruments, but can cause significant volatility on particular balance sheet dates, consequently the gain or loss is presented separately.
The defined benefit pension net interest charge arising in accordance with IAS 19 is presented separately.
The Group is cash-generative and reinvests funds to support the continuing growth of the business.
It seeks to use an accurate and appropriate measure of the funds generated internally while sustaining this growth.
For this, the Group uses operating cash flow, rather than cash generated by operations, as its preferred indicator of cash generated and available to cover non-operating expenses such as tax and interest payments.
Management believes that using cash generated by operations, with the exclusion of net expenditure on property, plant and equipment and outflows for capitalised product development and other intangibles, would result in an under-reporting of the true cash cost of sustaining a growing business.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must make a number of key judgements involving estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are based on factors considered to be relevant, including historical experience, that may differ significantly from the actual outcome.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include: CONTRACT REVENUE AND PROFIT RECOGNITION A significant proportion of the Groups activities are conducted under long term contract arrangements and are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Revenue and profit on such contracts are recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date of the particular contract and are calculated by reference to reliable estimates of contract revenue and expected costs.
When the contract outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to match costs until such time as this can be reliably estimated.
Expected costs are calculated after taking account of the perceived contract risks related to performance not yet proven.
Owing to the complexity of some of the contracts undertaken by the Group the cost estimation process requires significant judgement and is carried out using the experience of the Groups engineers, project managers and finance and commercial professionals.
Because of the level of judgement required, cost estimates are reviewed and updated on a regular basis using the Groups established project management processes.
Some of the factors that will impact upon cost estimates include the availability of suitably qualified labour, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the impact of change orders and the performance of sub-contractors.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where services are rendered, sales are recognised when the stage of completion of the services and the related revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
Where goods are delivered under arrangements not considered to fall under the scope of IAS 11 Construction Contracts, revenue is recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 129 Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS The Group accounts for its post-retirement pension plans in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged to the income statement in the period in which those benefits have been earned by the employees.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the scheme liabilities as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
The main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit post retirement obligation include the discount rate used in discounting scheme liabilities, the inflation rate, the expected rate of salary inflation, the expected rate of future pension increases, expected returns on scheme assets and future mortality assumptions.
For each of these assumptions, there is a range of possible values.
Relatively small changes in some of these variables can have a significant impact on the level of the total obligation.
The valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities at a specific point of time rather than over a period of time can lead to significant annual movements in the pension scheme deficit as calculated under IAS 19, but has no impact on short-term cash contributions since these are based upon separate independent actuarial valuations.
Details of the pension scheme assumptions and obligation at 31 December 2015 are provided in note 31.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
IFRS 3 revised also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition.
The assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets requires the use of estimates and judgements, that may differ from the actual outcome.
These estimates and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used.
GOODWILL Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of its goodwill balances which requires estimates to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows and long-term growth rates of the CGUs.
Further details on these estimates are provided in note 14.
INCOME TAXES In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred tax it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions held in the period the determination is made.
OMAN AIRPORT IT CONTRACT TERMINATION AND DEEMED DISPOSAL OF ITHRA Confirmation of the termination of the Oman Airport IT contract was received on 9 February 2015.
The termination event related to conditions already in existence at the 31 December 2014 balance sheet date and consequently the termination was considered to be an adjusting post balance sheet event for 2014 in accordance with IAS 10.
There remains significant uncertainty regarding the likely outcome of negotiations with the Sultanate of Oman, Ministry of Transport & Communications, or whether agreement can be reached without the need to enter a formal arbitration or judicial process.
As set out in note 7, on 4 March 2015, Ithra Ultra Electronics in collaboration with Oman Investment Corporation LLC, the legal entity established with the sole purpose of delivering the Oman Airport IT contract, was placed into voluntary liquidation.
A liquidator was appointed and is pursuing claims against the customer on behalf of the interested parties.
Ithra, upon liquidation, no longer meets the IFRS 10 criteria for consolidation as a subsidiary of the Group and is, consequently, a deemed disposal as at 4 March 2015.
Trade debtors and amounts recoverable on contracts were assessed for recoverability and allowances made for estimated irrecoverable amounts in the 2014 financial statements.
Upon the liquidation of Ithra, the provisions and gross receivables are now presented as a net position.
Specific provisions were also booked in 2014 to cover estimated legal costs and all known liabilities where the group has assessed it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
The Group continues to provide for all known remaining liabilities as at 31 December 2015.
Material items have been disclosed separately within the financial statements.
Disclosure is provided on the consolidated income statement and in note 7 regarding the 2015 deemed disposal of Ithra, and on the consolidated income statement and in note 2 regarding the non-underlying 2014 46.9m contract termination cost, comprising the 37.2m provision charge booked against contract receivables balances see note 20 and other termination provisions of 2014 9.7m.
