NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N. V. ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys accounting policies are the same as the Unilever BASIS OF PREPARATION Groups accounting, namely International Accounting Standard 32 The company accounts of Unilever N. V. the Company were Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, IAS 39 Financial prepared on the going concern basis and comply in all material Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial respects with legislation in the Netherlands.
As allowed by Instruments: Disclosures.
The policies are set out under the Article 2:362.1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the company accounts are heading Capital and funding in note 15 to the consolidated prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 accounts on pages 115 and 116.
Unilever N. V. is taking the Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, unless such exemption for financial instruments disclosures, because standards conflict with the Civil Code in the Netherlands which IFRS 7 disclosures are given in notes 15 to 18 to the consolidated would in such case prevail.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as DEFERRED TAXATION available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss, as well as Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on taxable derivative financial instruments, which are reported in accordance temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting with the accounting policies set out below.
These have been base of items included in the balance sheet of the Company.
consistently applied to all periods presented and in preparing an Certain temporary differences are not provided for as follows: opening FRS 101 balance sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect of the transition to FRS 101. neither accounting nor taxable profit: and Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS 1 First time adoptions foreseeable future.
of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 21.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively 31 December 2015. enacted, at the year end.
Unilever N. V. is included within the consolidated financial A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is statements of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will European Union.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance share based payments, financial instruments, capital management, with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Standards presentation of comparative information in respect of certain Interpretation Committee 12 Consolidation of Special Purpose assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet Entities SIC 12.
All differences between the purchase price effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
of the shares held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds Where required equivalent disclosures are given in the group received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged accounts of Unilever, which are available within this report.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES RETIREMENT BENEFITS The principal accounting policies are as follows: Unilever N. V. is the sponsoring employer to a number of pension schemes.
There are formal agreements in place for how the INTANGIBLE ASSETS contributions to be paid are split between participating companies.
Finite life intangible assets mainly comprise know-how and In line with this stated policy, Unilever N. V. recognises the assets software.
These assets are capitalised and amortised on a straight and liabilities of the schemes of which it is a sponsoring employer line basis in the income statement over the period of their expected in full on the N. V. balance sheet.
The recovery of contributions useful lives.
None of the amortisation periods exceed 20 years.
from other employing entities is in line with the existing There are no assets where the useful life cannot be reliably agreements that are already in place.
Indefinite life intangible assets mainly comprise trademarks and brands.
These assets are capitalised at cost but Unilever N. V. has accounted for pensions and similar benefits not amortised.
They are subject to review for impairment annually, under IAS 19R Employee Benefits.
The operating and financing or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate this costs of defined benefit plans are recognised separately in the necessary.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement profit and loss account: service costs are systematically spread as it arises.
over the service lives of employees, and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Variations from INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or Shares in group companies are stated at amortised cost less any changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately amounts written off to reflect a permanent impairment.
The costs of individual events such as past benefits, impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
enhancements, settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The liabilities and, where applicable, the assets of defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the profit and loss account for defined contribution plans are Unilever N. V. contributions payable and the assets of such plans are not included in Unilever N. V. s balance sheet.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 149
