NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
AND POLICIES Thefunctional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which were respectively.
Items included in the financial statements of applied for the previous financial year, except as set out below individual group companies are recorded in their respective under the heading Recent accounting developments.
functional currency which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates.
UNILEVER Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have fromsettlement of these transactions, and from translation the same Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, ofmonetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates, including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that arerecognised in the income statement except when deferred the positions of the shareholders of both companies are as closely in equity as qualifying hedges.
as possible the same as if they held shares in a single company.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances in The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt individual group companies are translated from their functional the same accounting principles.
It also requires that dividends and currency into euros.
The income statement, the cash flow other rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share statement and all other movements in assets and liabilities of NV, be equal in value to those rights and benefits attaching to are translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the each ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more part of the ordinary share capital of one and the same company.
Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes accordance with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the between the value for PLC and the value by applying the financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Group 15B on page 117. companies included in the consolidation are those companies The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets controlled by NV or PLC.
Control exists when the Group has the of foreign operations is recorded in equity.
For this purpose net power to direct the activities of an entity so as to affect the return assets include loans between group companies and any related on investment.
foreign exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates The Group applies hedge accounting to certain exchange of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control.
differences arising between the functional currencies of a foreign The results of disposed businesses are included in the operation and NV or PLC as appropriate, regardless of whether the consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal, net investment is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
being the date control ceases.
Differences arising on retranslation of a financial liability Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
designated as a foreign currency net investment hedge are recorded in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
These The company income statement for NV is included in the differences are reported within profit or loss to the extent that the consolidated financial statements.
An abbreviated income hedge is ineffective.
statement has been disclosed in the NV company accounts on page 148 in accordance with Section 402, Book 2 of the Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of Netherlands Civil Code.
transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other reserves.
In the event of disposal or part COMPANIES LEGISLATION AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in as a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and in profit or loss on disposal of group companies.
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS under IFRS.
They are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the The preparation of financial statements requires management to International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
make judgements, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from convention unless otherwise indicated.
Estimates and judgements are continuously These financial statements have been prepared on a going evaluated and are based on historical experience and other concern basis.
Refer to the going concern statement on page 84. factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised ACCOUNTING POLICIES in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the period affected.
These are presented as text highlighted in grey on pages 96 to 147.
The accounting policies below are applied throughout the financial statements.
94 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
