NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
AND POLICIES Thefunctional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which were respectively.
Items included in the financial statements of applied for the previous financial year, except as set out below individual group companies are recorded in their respective under the heading Recent accounting developments.
functional currency which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates.
UNILEVER Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have fromsettlement of these transactions, and from translation the same Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, ofmonetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates, including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that arerecognised in the income statement except when deferred the positions of the shareholders of both companies are as closely in equity as qualifying hedges.
as possible the same as if they held shares in a single company.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances in The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt individual group companies are translated from their functional the same accounting principles.
It also requires that dividends and currency into euros.
The income statement, the cash flow other rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share statement and all other movements in assets and liabilities of NV, be equal in value to those rights and benefits attaching to are translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the each ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more part of the ordinary share capital of one and the same company.
Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes accordance with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the between the value for PLC and the value by applying the financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Group 15B on page 117. companies included in the consolidation are those companies The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets controlled by NV or PLC.
Control exists when the Group has the of foreign operations is recorded in equity.
For this purpose net power to direct the activities of an entity so as to affect the return assets include loans between group companies and any related on investment.
foreign exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates The Group applies hedge accounting to certain exchange of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control.
differences arising between the functional currencies of a foreign The results of disposed businesses are included in the operation and NV or PLC as appropriate, regardless of whether the consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal, net investment is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
being the date control ceases.
Differences arising on retranslation of a financial liability Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
designated as a foreign currency net investment hedge are recorded in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
These The company income statement for NV is included in the differences are reported within profit or loss to the extent that the consolidated financial statements.
An abbreviated income hedge is ineffective.
statement has been disclosed in the NV company accounts on page 148 in accordance with Section 402, Book 2 of the Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of Netherlands Civil Code.
transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other reserves.
In the event of disposal or part COMPANIES LEGISLATION AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in as a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and in profit or loss on disposal of group companies.
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS under IFRS.
They are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the The preparation of financial statements requires management to International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
make judgements, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from convention unless otherwise indicated.
Estimates and judgements are continuously These financial statements have been prepared on a going evaluated and are based on historical experience and other concern basis.
Refer to the going concern statement on page 84. factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised ACCOUNTING POLICIES in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the period affected.
These are presented as text highlighted in grey on pages 96 to 147.
The accounting policies below are applied throughout the financial statements.
94 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION The Group does not currently believe adoption of the following new standards would have a material impact on the consolidated AND POLICIES CONTINUED results or financial position of the Group.
Information about critical judgements in applying accounting Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and policies, as well as estimates and assumptions that have the most Discontinued Operations adds specific guidance in IFRS 5 for significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying cases in which an entity reclassifies an asset from held for amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, sale to held for distribution to owners or vice versa.
are included in the following notes: IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts permits first time separate presentation of items in the income statement note 3: adopters of IFRS to continue to account for amounts related measurement of defined benefit obligations note 4B: to rate regulation in accordance with their previous GAAP.
utilisation of tax losses and recognition of other deferred tax The standard does not apply to the Group and has not been assets note 6B: endorsed by the EU yet.
key assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections The Disclosure Initiative aims at clarifying IAS 1 Presentation note 9: of Financial Statements through exploring how presentation likelihood of occurrence of provisions and contingencies, and disclosure principles and requirements in existing including direct and indirect tax investigations and audits standards can be improved to enable preparers in exercising notes 19 and 20: and their judgement in presenting their financial reports.
measurement of consideration and assets and liabilities Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and acquired as part of business combinations note 21.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets covers clarification of the principle of the basis of depreciation and revenue based methods are RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS not appropriate.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits clarifies that the ADOPTED BY THE GROUP high quality corporate bonds used in estimating the discount The following new and amended standards are relevant to the rate for post-employment benefits should be denominated Group and have been adopted for the first time in these financial in the same currency as the benefits to be paid.
statements, with no material impact: Amendments to IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants change Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based Payment clarifies issues the accounting for biological assets that meet the definition relating to the definitions of performance and service of bearer plants.
These will now be in the scope of IAS 16 conditions which are vesting conditions.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations clarifies when other applicable IFRSs should be referred to when determining The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following the classification of contingent consideration as a financial new standards that are not yet effective and is yet to quantify liability or equity instrument.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations clarifies that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective from the year ending it excludes from its scope the accounting for the formation of 31 December 2018 reflects all phases of the financial a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the joint instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial arrangement itself.
The standard Amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments clarifies that introduces new requirements for classification and entities should disclose those factors that are used to identify measurement of financial instruments, a new expected credit the entitys reportable segments when operating segments loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and have been aggregated.
new general hedge accounting requirements.
Based on work Amendments to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement clarifies performed we expect the adoption of IFRS 9 to impact the that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 can be applied not only classification and measurement of certain financial assets not to financial assets and financial liabilities, but also to other financial liabilities.
Work on the impact of the new impairment contracts within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: and hedge accounting requirements is in the early stages and Recognition and Measurement.
we expect new processes and IT systems may be required.
Amendment to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 38 Intangible Assets clarifies that when an item of property, from the year ended 31 December 2018 supersedes all existing plant and equipment or an intangible asset is revalued the revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
It is based on gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is the principle that revenue is recognised when control of goods consistent with the revaluation of the carrying amount.
or services is transferred and provides a single, principleAmendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee based model.
It applies to all transactions to provide goods and Contributions simplifies the accounting for contributions that services except those in the scope of other standards and are independent of the number of years of employee service.
replaces the separate models for goods, services and Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures clarifies construction contracts under current IFRS.
that an entity providing key management personnel services Unilever has commenced work to train our people and to the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity identify areas of divergence with current practice.
Based on is a related party of the reporting entity.
a preliminary assessment from work performed to date, the Group believes that the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a NOT ADOPTED BY THE GROUP material impact on consolidated results or financial position All of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations but work is ongoing.
are effective from 1 January 2016 unless otherwise stated.
Standards have been endorsed by the EU unless otherwise stated.
IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and is effective from the year ended 31 December 2019.
The standard replaces all existing lease accounting requirements and represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases, with more assets and liabilities to be reported on the balance sheet and a different recognition of lease costs.
Unilever will begin to assess the impact of this standard on the Group during 2016.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 95
