134 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts A summary of the Companys principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year in the separate financial information presented for the Company, are set out below: Basis of accounting The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The transition from the previously applicable United Kingdom accounting standards is not considered to have resulted in any material re-statements.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company, as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by FRS101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash-flow statement and certain related party transactions.
The Companys retained profit for the year is disclosed in note 47.
Fixed assets and depreciation Property, plant and equipment are shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Taxation UK Corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
These arise from including gains and losses in tax assessments in different periods from those recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Retirement benefit costs The Company participates in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between entities under common control.
The details of this UK scheme, for which Ultra Electronics Limited is the sponsoring employer, are set out in note 31 of the Group accounts.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net benefit cost to Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Assessment of impairments requires estimates to be made of the value in use of the underlying investments.
These value in use calculations are dependant on estimates of future cash flows and long-term growth rates.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Further disclosure in relation to share-based payments is given in note 27 of the Group financial statements.
Related parties Remuneration of the Directors, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Company, is disclosed in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 79.
Loans and overdrafts Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs where there is a facility commitment.
In these circumstances issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the life of the commitment.
Where there is no facility commitment, issue costs are written-off as incurred.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
