NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES heading Capital and funding in note 15 to the consolidated accounts on pages 115 and 116.
Unilever PLC is taking the BASIS OF PREPARATION exemption for financial instruments disclosures, because IFRS 7 These financial statements were prepared on the going concern disclosures are given in notes 15 to 18 to the consolidated accounts basis and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 on pages 115 to 129.
Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Companies, Partnership and Groups Accounts and DEFERRED TAXATION Reports Regulations 2015 have been adopted from 1 January Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on taxable 2015.
No profit and loss account is presented by Unilever PLC the temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. base of items included in the balance sheet of the Company.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, Certain temporary differences are not provided for as follows: except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss, as well as accounting nor taxable profit: and derivative financial instruments, which are reported in accordance Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent with the accounting policies set out below.
These have been that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
consistently applied to all periods presented and in preparing an The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected opening FRS 101 balance sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of of transition to FRS 101. assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the enacted, at the year end.
requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS 1 First time adoptions A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Transition tables probable that future taxable profits will be available against which showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note 14.
The the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the accounting policies which follow set out those policies which extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended be realised.
Unilever PLC is included within the consolidated financial SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS statements of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance of the Group are prepared in accordance with International with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Standards Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB and as Interpretation Committee 12 Consolidation of Special Purpose adopted by the European Union.
All differences between the purchase price of the shares held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves.
disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share based payments, financial instruments, capital management, DIVIDENDS presentation of comparative information in respect of certain Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, proposed assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet dividends do not meet the definition of a liability until such time as effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Where required equivalent disclosures are given in the group Meeting.
Therefore, we do not recognise a liability in any period for accounts of Unilever, which are publicly available.
dividends that have been proposed but will not be approved until after the balance sheet date.
This holds for external dividends as ACCOUNTING POLICIES well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent company.
The principal accounting policies are as follows: TAXATION INTANGIBLE ASSETS Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for Finite life intangible assets mainly comprise trademarks the period, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted purchased after 1 January 1998.
These assets are capitalised and at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in amortised on a straight line basis in the income statement over respect of previous periods.
the period of their expected useful lives.
None of the amortisation periods exceed 20 years.
There are no assets where the useful PROVISIONS life cannot be reliably determined.
Indefinite life intangible assets Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation mainly comprise trademarks and brands.
These assets are exists at the balance sheet date, as a result of a past event, where capitalised at cost but not amortised.
They are subject to review the amount of the obligation can be readily estimated and where for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or the outflow of economic benefit is probable.
circumstances indicate this is necessary.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEES Where the Company enters in financial guarantee contracts to INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, Shares in group companies are stated at amortised cost less any the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and amounts written off to reflect a permanent impairment.
Any accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS payment under the guarantee.
The Companys accounting policies are the same as the Unilever Groups accounting, namely International Accounting Standard 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The policies are set out under the 156 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
