01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 Financial statements 04 Other information SECTION 1: BASIS OF PREPARATION This section lays out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to a particular note to the financial statements, the policy is described in the note to which it relates and has been clearly identified in a box.
The financial statements consolidate those of The Unite Group plc, the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interests in jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not as a group.
Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
The accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements, with the exception of the first time application of the following standards: The Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 Cycles includes amendments to a number of different accounting standards.
The majority of the amendments are in the nature of clarifications rather than substantive changes to existing requirements.
However, the amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments - Aggregation of operating segments and IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures - Key management personnel represent changes to existing requirements The adoption of these standards has not had a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position are set out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 49.
In addition, section 4 of these Notes to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: details of its borrowings and interest rate swaps: and in note 5.3, its exposure to credit risk.
The Group has prepared cash flow projections three years forward to December 2018 and the Group has sufficient headroom to meet all its commitments.
The Group finalised a new facility in November 2015 which will be sufficient to fund the Groups commitments over the next three years.
This facility will be of sufficient size to replace the debt facility maturing in the Group in 2016.
The Group has historically maintained positive relationships with its lending banks and has always secured new facilities before maturity dates and within its covenant levels.
The Group is in full compliance with its covenants at 31 December 2015.
Our debt facilities include loan-to-value, interest cover and minimum net worth covenants, all of which have a high level of headroom.
In order to manage future financial commitments, the Group operate a formal approval process, through its Major Investment Approvals Committee, to ensure appropriate review is undertaken before any transactions are agreed.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment property, investment property under development, investments in subsidiaries and interest rate swaps all of which are stated at their fair value.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has an existing right that gives it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the subsidiary, has exposure or right to variable returns from its involvement in the subsidiary and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions, such as property disposals and management fees are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups retained interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except where the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or an impairment in value of fixed assets.
105 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED SECTION 1: BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Impact of accounting standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 16 Leases: IFRS 11 amendments Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations: IAS 1 amendments Disclosure initiative: IAS 16 amendments Property, Plant and Equipment: IAS 38 amendments Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture: IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 amendments Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption: and The Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle includes amendments to: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 19 Employee Benefits and IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments, IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures and IFRS 16 will impact the treatment of leases.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed.
Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement of complexity are set out below and are explained in more detail in the related notes to the financial statements.
The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and assumptions that are significant to the financial statements are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: valuation of investment property, investment property under development, completed properties and properties under development note 3.1 taxation note 2.5 The accounting policy descriptions set out the areas where judgement needs exercising, the most significant of which are as follows: classification of joint venture vehicles note 3.4 106 106 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
