01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information NOTES 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should arrive at the offices of the Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30 a. m. In order to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares so a member must have more than one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting although voting in person at the meeting will terminate a members proxy appointment.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30 a. m. on 10 May 2016.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, the revocation of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
If you submit your proxy via the internet it should reach the registrar by 9.30 a. m. on 10 May 2016.
Should you complete your proxy form electronically and then post a hard copy, the form that arrives last will be counted to the exclusion of instructions received earlier, whether electronic or posted.
Please refer to the terms and conditions of the service on the website.
In the case of joint holders of shares, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 157 OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 11.
Any person to whom this notice has been sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 5.00 p. m. on 10 May 2016 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the timed fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
In each case, changes to the register of members of the Company after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 23 February 2016 being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 221,940,849 ordinary shares carrying one vote each at a general meeting of the Company.
No ordinary shares were held in treasury and therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 February 2016 are 221,940,849.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk 1 the matters set out in this notice of annual general meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of the meeting was given.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
158 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information 20.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the AGM.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate representative.
Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check their own legal position, the Companys articles of association and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: a copies of the executive directors service contracts with the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings: and b letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
A copy of the amendments to the Unite Group plc 2011 Performance Share Plan and the Unite Group plc 2011 Approved Employee Share Option Scheme are available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the Registered Office of the Company and at the offices of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG, and shall be available for inspection on the morning of the AGM at the meeting venue from 9.15 a. m. until its conclusion.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 159
