FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED SECTION 4: FUNDING CONTINUED 4.2 Interest rate swaps The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
In accordance with the Groups treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue interest rate swaps for trading purposes and only holds swaps which are considered to be commercially effective.
Accounting policies Interest rate swaps are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, with mark to market movements recognised in the income statement unless cash flow hedge accounting is applied.
Hedge accounting, as defined in IFRS, is when the interest rate swap is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to the interest risk of borrowings.
The effective portion of changes in fair value of the interest rate swap is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group only applies hedge accounting when the hedge is expected to be highly effective.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity with any subsequent movements in fair value taken to the income statement.
If the hedged transaction is no longer probable, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The following table shows the fair value of interest rate swaps: 2015 2014 m m Current 0.4 Non-current 2.3 1.9 Fair value of interest rate swaps 2.3 2.3 The fair values of interest rate swaps have been calculated by a third party expert, discounting estimated future cash flows on the basis of market expectations of future interest rates, representing level 2 in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy.
4.3 Net financing costs Accounting policies Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable on funds invested both calculated using the effective interest rate method and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
134 134 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
