OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The UNITE Group plc the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 12 May 2016 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing Resolutions 1 to 19 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 20 and 21 as special resolutions.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Annual Report and Accounts 1.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 together with the Directors report, the strategic report and the auditors report on those annual accounts the Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 72 to 79 inclusive in the Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 70 to 71 inclusive and pages 80 to 89 inclusive respectively in the Annual Report and Accounts.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 9.5p per ordinary share payable on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the register of members of the Company at the close of business on 22 April 2016.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 5 to 13 5.
To re-elect Mr P M White as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr M C Allan as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J J Lister as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R C Simpson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R S Smith as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs M Wolstenholme as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr A Jones as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms Elizabeth McMeikan as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr Patrick Dempsey as a Director of the Company.
To appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Amendments to The Unite Group plc 2011 Performance Share Plan 17.
THAT the amendments to the Rules of the Unite Group plc 2011 Performance Share Plan summarised in the explanatory notes relating to the business of the AGM on page 91 of the Annual Report and Accounts, and in the form produced at the AGM and initialled by the Chairman of the AGM for the purposes of identification, be and are hereby approved.
Amendments to The Unite Group plc 2011 Approved Employee Share Option Scheme 18.
THAT the amendments to the Rules of the Unite Group plc 2011 Approved Employee Share Option Scheme summarised in the explanatory notes relating to the business of the AGM on page 91 of the Annual Report and Accounts, and in the form produced at the AGM and initialled by the Chairman of the AGM for the purposes of identification, be and are hereby approved.
154 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
