Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 133 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Presentation of financial statements General information Vedanta Resources plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and is a London listed diversified global natural resources major.
The Group produces aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, oil & gas and commercial power.
Vedanta has operations in India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland, Liberia, Australia, UAE and Sri Lanka.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars being the functional currency of the Company and all values are rounded to one decimal of the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and related interpretations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, fixed rate bonds and defined benefit pension obligations that have been measured at fair value as per the principles of Fair value measurement under IFRS 13.
Restatement The Group has revised the presentation of forward premium on the forward covers within finance costs rather than other gains and losses, as these more appropriately reflects the substance of the transaction.
US$84.1 million for the comparative year ended 31 March 2014 have been reclassified.
The following Standards have been issued but not yet effective up to the date of authorisation of these financial statements and in some cases had not yet been adopted by EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the International Accounting Standards Board issued the final version of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments.
The standard reduces the complexity of the current rules on financial instruments as mandated in IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has fewer classification and measurement categories as compared to IAS 39 and has eliminated the categories of held to maturity, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
Further it eliminates the rule based requirement of segregating embedded derivatives and tainting rules pertaining to held to maturity investments.
For an investment in an equity instrument which is not held for trading, IFRS 9 permits an irrevocable election, on initial recognition, on an individual share-by-share basis, to present all fair value changes from the investment in other comprehensive income.
No amount recognised in other comprehensive income would ever be reclassified to profit or loss.
It requires the entity, which chooses to measure a liability at fair value, to present the portion of the fair value change attributable to the entitys own credit risk in the other comprehensive income.
IFRS 9 replaces the incurred loss model in IAS 39 with an expected credit loss model.
The measurement uses a dual measurement approach, under which the loss allowance is measured as either 12 month expected credit losses or lifetime expected credit losses.
The standard also introduces new presentation and disclosure requirements.
The effective date for adoption of IFRS 9 is annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, though early adoption is permitted.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard replaces most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of the new standard is for companies to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard also will result in enhanced disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively including service revenues and contract modifications and improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements.
The new Standard will come into effect on 1 January 2017 with early application permitted.
Following other standard, improvements and amendments to the standards have been issued up to the date of authorisation of these financial statements.
a IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts b Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative c Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20122014 Cycle d Amendments to IAS 27: Equity method in separate financial statements e Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer plants f Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation g Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations h Amendments to IAS 19: Defined benefit plans: Employee Contributions The Group is evaluating the requirements of these standards, improvements and amendments and has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial statements.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 134 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Presentation of financial statements continued Adoption of new and revised standards The Group has adopted with effect from 1 April 2014, the following new and revised standards and interpretations.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Accounting pronouncements that became effective in the current year: Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: Recoverable amount disclosure for Non-Financial Assets The amendment requires the disclosure of the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU only in periods in which impairment is recorded or reversed in respect of that asset or CGU.
The amendment also expands and requires the disclosure when an assets CGUs recoverable amount is determined on the basis of fair value less cost of disposal.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge accounting The amendment states that the novation of hedging instrument should not be considered an expiration or termination giving rise to discontinuation of hedge accounting when a hedging derivative is novated.
It provides relief from discontinuing an existing hedging relationship when a novation that is not contemplated in the original hedging documentation meets specific criteria.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The amendments to IAS 32 amended offsetting financial assets and liabilities do not change the current offsetting model in IAS 32.
The current offsetting model requires an entity to offset a financial asset and financial liability in the statement of financial position only when the entity currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and intends either to settle the asset and liability on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Through these amendments, IASB has clarified the meaning of currently have a legally enforceable right to set-off and simultaneous realisation and settlement.
The amendments clarify that to result in offset of a financial asset and financial liability, a right to set off must be available today rather than being contingent on a future event and must be exercisable by any of the counterparties.
It must be legally enforceable in the normal course of business.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 October 2012 Investment entities The amendments define an investment entity and introduce an exception to consolidating the investment entities.
These amendments require an investment entity to measure those subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in its consolidated and separate financial statements.
The amendments also introduce new disclosure requirements for investment entities in IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
The amendments also introduce new disclosure requirements related to investment entities and provide scope exemption for investment entities from IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The Group has early adopted IFRIC 21 Levies which has been endorsed by the EU but is effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014 IFRIC 21 provides guidance for recognition of a liability for a levy imposed by a government, both for levies that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and those where the timing and amount of the levy is certain.
This interpretation clarifies that the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay a government levy is the activity that triggers the payment of levy as set out in the relevant legislation.
An entity does not have constructive obligation to pay a levy that will be triggered by operating in a future period.
However, it does not include income taxes, fines and other penalties, liabilities arising from emissions trading schemes and outflows within the scope of other Standards.
This did not have any significant impact on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
The Group has not early adopted any other amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the Groups current and forecast financing position, additional details of which are provided in the Going Concern section of the strategic report.
Parent Company financial statements The financial statements of the parent Company, Vedanta Resources plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and UK company law.
The Company Balance Sheet is presented in Note 47.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 135 2 a Accounting policies i Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries: The consolidated financial information incorporates the results of the Company and all its subsidiaries the Group, being the companies that it controls.
Control is evidenced where the Company has power over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Power is demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect the entity returns.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with accounting policies used by the Group.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheet.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the noncontrolling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity.
In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Joint arrangements A Joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is considered when there is contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has joint operations within its Oil & Gas segment, the Group participates in several unincorporated joint operations which involve the joint control of assets used in oil & gas exploration and producing activities.
The Group accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of joint ventures in which the Group holds an interest, classified in the appropriate balance sheet and income statement headings.
In addition, where the Group acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint operations are included in the Group balance sheet.
ii Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties after deducting discounts, volume rebates, outgoing sales taxes and duties, and are recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer or services have been provided.
This is usually when the title passes to the customer as per the contract.
Certain of the Groups sales contracts provide for provisional pricing based on the price on the London Metal Exchange Limited LME, as specified in the contract, when shipped.
Final settlement of the prices is based on the applicable price for a specified future period.
The Companys provisionally priced sales are marked to market using the relevant forward prices for the future period specified in the contract with a corresponding adjustment to revenue.
Revenue from oil, gas and condensate sales represent the Groups share of oil, gas and condensate production, recognised on a direct entitlement basis, and tariff income received for third party use of operating facilities and pipelines in accordance with agreements.
Revenue from holding certificate contracts is recognised when goods have been delivered to a distribution warehouse or has been identified and kept separately, have been inspected by a nominee of the buyer and cash has been received.
Under these arrangements, revenue is recognised once legal title has passed and all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Revenue from the sale of power is recognised when the electricity is supplied and measured based on contractually agreed tariff rates as approved by the electricity regulatory authorities.
Revenues from sale of material by-products are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods sold are transferred to the customer.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 136 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued iii Special items Special items are those items that management considers, by virtue of their size or incidence including but not limited to impairment charges and acquisition and restructuring related costs, should be disclosed separately to ensure that the financial information allows an understanding of the underlying performance of the business in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods.
Also tax charges related to Special items and certain one-time tax effects are considered Special.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the years result and require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 97.
The determination as to which items should be disclosed separately requires a degree of judgement.
iv Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
The acquirers identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except certain assets and liabilities required to be measured as per the applicable standards.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, a joint arrangement or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
The difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred including contingent consideration and previously held non-controlling interests and the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets on acquisition is recognised as Goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Where the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities exceed the cost of acquisition, the surplus is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Any non-controlling interest in an acquiree is measured at fair value or as the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, excluding goodwill.
This accounting choice is made on a  basis.
Acquisition expenses are charged to the income statement.
If the Group acquires a group of assets or equity in a company that does not constitute a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the cost of the acquired group of assets or equity is allocated to the individual identifiable assets acquired based on their relative fair value.
v Intangible assets Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The Group determines the amortisation period as the period over which the future economic benefits will flow to the Group after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances.
Amortisation method, residual values and estimated useful life of intangible assets are reviewed annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The Group does not have any indefinite life intangible assets.
Intangible assets arising out of service concession arrangements are accounted for as intangible assets where the Company has a contractual right to charge users of services when the projects are completed and is measured at the cost of such construction services completed.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the balance of license period, usually between three to 30 years.
vi Property, plant and equipment Relating to mineral assets mining properties and leases The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment under the heading Mining properties and leases in the year in which they are incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is viable for commercial production i. e. when the Group determines that the mining property will provide sufficient and sustainable returns relative to the risk and decides to proceed with the development, all further preproduction primary development expenditure other than land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised as part of the cost of the mining property until the mining property is capable of commercial production.
From that point, capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised on a unit-of-production basis over the total estimated remaining commercial reserves of each property or group of properties.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition subject to meeting the commercial production criteria mentioned above and are subject to an impairment review on an annual basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred after obtaining the right to mine or the legal right to explore, is capitalised as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost less any impairment.
Exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when the technical feasibility and commercial viability has been determined.
Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment and impairment loss, if any, is recognised prior to reclassification.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred prior to obtaining the mining right or the legal right to explore are expensed as incurred.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 137 2 a Accounting policies continued Exploration expenditure includes all direct and allocated indirect expenditure associated with finding specific mineral resources which includes depreciation and applicable operating costs of related support equipment and facilities and other costs of exploration activities: a.
Acquisition costs costs associated with acquisition of licences and rights to explore, including related professional fees.
General exploration costs costs of surveys and studies, rights of access to properties to conduct those studies e. g. costs incurred for environment clearance, defence clearance, etc.
and salaries and other expenses of geologists, geophysical crews and other personnel conducting those studies.
c. Costs of exploratory drilling and equipping exploratory and appraisal wells.
The stripping cost incurred during the production phase of a surface mine is deferred to the extent the current period stripping cost exceeds the average period stripping cost over the life of the mine and recognised as an asset if such cost provides a benefit in terms of improved access to ore in future periods and certain criteria are met.
Deferred stripping costs are included in mining properties within property, plant and equipment and disclosed as a part of mining properties.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a unit of production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body.
In circumstances where a mining property is abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs relating to the property are written off in the period in which it occurs i. e. when the Group determines that the mining property will not provide sufficient and sustainable returns relative to the risks and the Group decides not to proceed with the mine development.
Commercial reserves are proved and probable reserves as defined by the JORC Code and SAMREC Code.
Changes in the commercial reserves affecting unit of production calculations are dealt with prospectively over the revised remaining reserves.
Relating to oil & gas assets Exploration & evaluation assets and developing producing assets For oil & gas assets a successful efforts based accounting policy is followed.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the income statement.
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis.
Costs are held, are not amortised or depreciated, within exploration and evaluation assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered.
Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil & gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within property, plant and equipment exploration and evaluation assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities under oil & gas properties and or exploration and evaluation assets as appropriate.
Exploration drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established.
The success or failure of each exploration effort is judged on a well-by-well basis.
Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial.
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related capitalised exploration costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant and equipment development producing assets oil & gas properties after testing for impairment.
Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within property, plant and equipment development producing assets oil & gas properties on a field-by-field basis.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development producing asset or replaces part of the existing development producing asset.
Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed.
Net proceeds from any disposal of an exploration asset are initially credited against the previously capitalised costs.
Any surplus proceeds are credited to the income statement.
Net proceeds from any disposal of development producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost.
A gain or loss on disposal of a development producing asset is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset.
Other property, plant and equipment The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to working condition and location for its intended use, including relevant borrowing costs and any expected costs of decommissioning.
Expenditure incurred after the property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the costs are incurred.
Major shut-down and overhaul expenditure is capitalised as the activities undertaken improve the economic benefits expected to arise from the asset.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 138 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued vii Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
At the point when an asset is operating at managements intended use, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences see below.
Costs associated with the commissioning of an asset and any obligatory decommissioning costs are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels until a period of commissioning has been completed.
Revenue generated from production during the trial period is capitalised.
Borrowing costs and certain foreign exchange gains or losses are in certain circumstances capitalised in the cost of the asset under construction.
This policy is set out under Borrowing Costs.
viii Depreciation and amortisation Relating to mining properties Mining properties and other assets in the course of development or construction, freehold land and goodwill are not depreciated or amortised.
Capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised once commercial production commences, as described in Property, plant and equipment mining properties and leases.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the period of the lease or, if shorter, their useful economic life.
Relating to oil & gas assets All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil & gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, generally on a field-by-field basis or group of fields which are reliant on common infrastructure.
Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil & gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs required to access commercial reserves.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Others Other buildings, plant and equipment, office equipment and fixtures, and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Buildings operations and administration 3060 years Plant and machinery Continuous process plant 15 years Other than Continuous process plant 40 years Used in manufacture of non-ferrous metals 25 years Office equipment and fixtures 510 years Motor vehicles 810 years The Group reviews the residual value and useful life of an asset annually and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
Major overhaul costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the economic benefit to be derived from the overhaul.
The carrying amount of the remaining previous overhaul cost is charged to the income statement if the next overhaul is undertaken earlier than the previously estimated life of the economic benefit.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale or which is part of a disposal group held for sale is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale is carried at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less disposal cost and is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, in line with its accounting policy, the Group has carried out the review of the useful life of its assets.
Considering the physical condition of the assets and benchmarking analysis, the Group has revised the useful life.
The carrying value of the assets has been depreciated over the revised remaining useful life effective 1 October 2014.
As a result the net depreciation charge for the year is lower by US$67.4 million and profit after tax is higher by US$44.5 million net of deferred tax impact of US$22.9 million.
The changes made to the useful economic lives is expected to have an impact on the depreciation charge going forward, although the quantum per asset class will vary depending on whether the useful life has increased or decreased.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 139 2 a Accounting policies continued ix Impairment Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statements of income.
Any cumulative loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset recognised previously in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated statements of income on recognition of impairment.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost and available-for-sale financial assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in the consolidated statements of income.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the change in fair value is recognised directly in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The allowance accounts in respect of trade and other receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Company is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at that point the amounts are considered irrecoverable and are written off against the financial asset directly.
Non-financial assets Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cash-generating units.
A cash-generating unit CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
In addition, formal impairment tests for all assets are performed when there is an indication of impairment.
The Group conducts an internal review of asset values annually, which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, such as changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication exists then an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is calculated, as the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and the assets value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal is the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and does not reflect the effects of factors that may be specific to the entity and not applicable to entities in general.
Fair value for mineral and oil & gas assets is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that an independent market participant may take into account.
These cash flows are discounted at an appropriate post tax discount rate to arrive at the net present value.
Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
The cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Value in use is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to give a different result to a fair value calculation.
The carrying amount of the CGU is determined on a basis consistent with the way the recoverable amount of the CGU is determined.
The carrying amount includes the deferred tax liability recognised in the fair value of the assets acquired in a business combination.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is limited to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had previously been recognised.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 140 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation assets: In assessing whether there is any indication that an exploration and evaluation asset may be impaired, the Company considers, as a minimum, the following indications: the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area: sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale: and reserve information prepared annually by external experts.
When a potential impairment is identified, an assessment is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the Group of operating assets representing a cash-generating unit to which the exploration and evaluation assets is attributed.
Exploration areas in which reserves have been discovered but require major capital expenditure before production can begin, are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration work is under way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer expected to be recovered, it is charged to the income statement.
x Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable from the date of classification, management are committed to the sale and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
xi Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over theexpected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as and when the related expenditure isincurred.
xii Inventories Inventories and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the following basis: Purchased copper concentrate is recorded at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: all other materials including stores and spares are valued on weighted average basis: except at Cairn where stores and spares are valued on a FIFO basis.
Finished products are valued at raw material cost plus costs of conversion, comprising labour costs and an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity: and by-products and scrap are valued at net realisable value.
Net realisable value is determined based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
xiii Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Exceptions to this principle are: Tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: Deferred income tax is not recognised on the impairment of goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes or on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, which at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 141 2 a Accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
xiv Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates or participates in a number of defined benefits and contribution schemes, the assets of which are where funded held in separately administered funds.
For defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined each year separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method by independent qualified actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are not recycled to the income statement.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Defined benefit costs are split into current service cost, past service cost, net interest expense or income and remeasurement.
Current service cost and past service cost is recognised within cost of sales and administrative expenses.
Net interest expense or income is recognised within finance costs.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
xv Share-based payments Certain employees including Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined with the assistance of an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
xvi Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
xvii Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mine or oil field.
Costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work are provided for based on their discounted net present value, with a corresponding amount being capitalised at the start of each project.
The amount provided for is recognised, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged to the income statement over the life of the operation through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
The cost estimates are reviewed periodically and are adjusted to reflect known developments which may have an impact on the cost estimates or life of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision due to factors such as updated cost estimates, new disturbance and revisions to discount rates.
The adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The unwinding of the discount is shown as a finance cost in the income statement.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is caused on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and charged to the income statement as extraction progresses.
Where the costs of site restoration are not anticipated to be significant, they are expensed as incurred.
xviii Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 142 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued xix Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Income Statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
The Group has reviewed the terms and conditions of the lease arrangements and determined that all risks and rewards of ownership lie with the Group and has therefore accounted for the contracts as finance leases.
xx Foreign currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all principal operating subsidiaries, the functional currency is the local currency of the country in which it operates with the exception of KCM and Cairn which has a US dollar functional currency as that is the currency of primary economic environment in which it operates.
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into the functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the income statement, except, where the monetary item is designated as an effective hedging instrument of the currency risk of designated forecast sales, where exchange differences are recognised in equity and exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings relating to asset under construction, and for future productive use, which are included in the cost of those assets when they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on those foreign currency borrowings.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the period.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of such operations, and on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of entities with a different functional currency to the Companys functional currency, the deferred cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity relating to that particular operation is reclassified to the income statement.
xxi Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are classified as available for sale under IAS 39 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on financial asset investments are recognised directly in equity.
Ondisposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Investments in unquoted equity instruments that do not have a market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost.
Investments in equity instruments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
xxii Liquid investments Liquid investments represent short-term investments that do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents for one or more of the following reasons: They have a maturity profile greater than 90 days.
They may be subject to a greater risk of changes in value than cash.
They are held for investment purposes.
The value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments.
xxiii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments.
xxiv Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an event, which based on previous experience, is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the trade receivables.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 143 2 a Accounting policies continued xxv Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
xxvi Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
xxvii Borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
xxviii Convertible bonds Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity are accounted for as compound instruments.
The equity components and the liability components are separated out on the date of the issue.
The equity component is recognised in a separate reserve and is not subsequently remeasured.
The liability component is held at amortised cost.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate, being the prevailing market interest rate at the date of issuance for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between this amount and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
Convertible bonds not denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity or where a cash conversion option exists, are split into two components: a debt component and a component representing the embedded derivative in the convertible bond.
The debt component represents a liability for future coupon payments and the redemption of the principal amount.
The embedded derivative, a financial liability, represents the value of the option that bondholders have to convert into ordinary shares.
At inception the embedded derivative is recorded at fair value and the remaining balance, after deducting a share of issue costs, is recorded as the debt component.
Subsequently, the debt component is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with the change in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
The embedded derivative and the debt component are disclosed together and the current non-current classification follows the classification of the debt component which is the host contract.
xxix Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time that the assets are substantially ready for their intended use in accordance with the Group policy which is when they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available out of money borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from such short-term investments is also capitalised to reduce the total capitalised borrowing cost.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Capitalisation of interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is ceased when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the assets ready for their intended use are complete or when delays occur outside of the normal course of business.
xxx Available for sale financial assets Listed equity shares and debt instruments held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available for sale AFS financial assets and are stated at fair value.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Dividends received from investees accounted for as equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive the payment is established.
xxxi Financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss Held for trading financial assets Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments and is accounted for in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks, the Group enters into forward contracts, option contracts, swap contracts and other derivative financial instruments.
The Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
The resultant gains or losses are recognised in the income statement unless these are designated as effective hedging instruments.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 144 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued xxxii Hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as eitherfair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the income statement and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in equity.
This includes certain non-derivative liabilities that are designated as a hedge of the foreign currency risk on future, highly probable, forecast sales.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
xxxiii Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions, that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of these consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods affected.
Vedanta considers the following areas as the key sources of estimation uncertainty: i Oil & Gas reserves Oil & Gas reserves are estimated on a proved and probable entitlement interest basis.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed regularly.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Net entitlement reserves estimates are subsequently calculated using the Groups current oil price and cost recovery assumptions, in line with the relevant agreements.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could impact the depreciation rates, carrying value of assets and environmental and restoration provisions.
ii Carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets Where a project is sufficiently advanced the recoverability of IFRS 6 Exploration assets are assessed by comparing the carrying value to higher of fair value less cost of disposal or value in use.
Exploration assets are inherently judgemental to value and further details on the accounting policy are included in accounting note above.
The amounts for exploration and evaluation assets represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will be written off to the income statement as exploration costs unless commercial reserves are established or the determination process is not completed and there are no indications of impairment.
The outcome of ongoing exploration, and therefore whether the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain.
Details of impairment charge and the assumptions used are disclosed in Note 5.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 145 2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty continued iii Carrying value of developing producing oil & gas assets Management perform impairment tests on the Groups developing producing oil & gas assets at least annually with reference to indicators in IAS 36.
The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and assumptions, including: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and, in certain cases, expansion projects Commodity prices managements best estimate benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within the range of available analyst forecast Exchange rates management best estimate benchmarked with external sources of information Discount rates cost of capital risk-adjusted for the risk specific to the asset CGU Extension of PSC assumed that PSC for Rajasthan block would be extended until 2030 on the same commercial terms Other key assumptions in the impairment models based on management expectations are that government approval will be received to further increase production rates and that the Enhanced Oil Recovery programme will be successfully implemented.
Any subsequent changes to cash flows due to changes in the above mentioned factors could impact the carrying value of the assets.
Details of impairment charge and the assumptions used are disclosed in Note 5. iv Mining properties and leases The carrying value of mining property and leases is arrived at by depreciating the assets over the life of the mine using the unit of production method based on proved and probable reserves.
The estimate of reserves is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when new information becomes available.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade ofreserves or commodity prices could thus impact the carrying values of mining properties and leases and environmental and restoration provisions.
Details of impairment charge are disclosed in Note 5. v Useful economic lives and impairment of other assets Property, plant and equipment other than mining properties, oil & gas properties, and leases are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the useful economic lives at least once a year and any changes could affect the depreciation rates prospectively and hence the asset carrying values.
The Group also reviews its property, plant and equipment, including mining properties and leases, for possible impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
In assessing the property, plant and equipment for impairment, factors leading to significant reduction in profits such as changes in commodity prices, the Groups business plans and changes in regulatory environment are taken into consideration.
The carrying value of the assets of a cash generating unit CGU is compared with the recoverable amount of those assets, that is, the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Recoverable value is based on the management estimates of commodity prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory climates, long-term plan, discount rates and other factors.
Any subsequent changes to cash flow due to changes in the above-mentioned factors could impact the carrying value of the assets.
vi Assessment of impairment at Lanjigarh Refinery The Group has considered that the delay in obtaining environment clearances for the expansion of the alumina refinery at Lanjigarh and regulatory approval for bauxite mining as an indication of impairment.
Hence, the Group have reviewed the carrying value of its property, plant and equipments at Lanjigarh as at balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of these assets and concluded that there was no impairment because the recoverable amount estimated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amounts.
The key assumptions and estimates used in determining the value in use of these assets were: The State of Odisha has abundant bauxite resources and under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding MOU with the Government of Odisha, management is confident that bauxite will be made available in the short to medium term.
The Company has entered into agreements with various suppliers internationally and domestically to ensure the availability of bauxite to run its refinery.
In the initial years, the Company has assumed that bauxite will be purchased from third party suppliers in India and other countries, until the bauxite is sourced from its own mines.
The State of Odisha has taken certain measures including reservation of areas for mining operations or undertaking prospecting and the constitution of the Ministerial Committee for formulation of a policy for supply of ores to Odisha-based industries on a long-term basis.
On 12 January 2015, the Government of India came out with an ordinance to amend the existing MMDR act.
The major change is in the process of grant of concessions i. e. from a first come first served basis to a more transparent process of auction and to expedite the grant process.
The management expects that the conditions for construction of the alumina refinery will be fulfilled and it is assumed that the approval for the expansion of the refinery would be received for commencement of production by fiscal 2018.
Management expects that approvals for mining and the statutory approvals for the expansion project will be received as anticipated.
Additionally the Group carries out impairment assessment for carrying value of these assets every half year and challenges these assumptions.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 146 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty continued As at 31 March 2015, the carrying amount of property plant and equipment related to alumina refinery operations at Lanjigarh and related mining assets is US$1,165 million 31 March 2014: US$1,231 million.
vii Assessment of Impairment of Karnataka and Goa iron ore mines: Karnataka mining The mining ban in Karnataka was lifted on 17 April 2013 and the mining operations resumed in December 2013.
The mining operations weresuspended since August 2014 for want of environment clearances.
On execution of the Mining Lease Deed and final forest clearance, the operations were resumed towards the end of February 2015.
The carrying value of assets as at 31 March 2015 is US$168.1 million 31 March 2014: US$180.3 million.
Goa mining The Ministry of Environment and Forests revoked its earlier order which had kept the environment clearances for iron ore mines in Goa in abeyance.
The State Government has issued a mining policy and has lifted the ban on iron ore mining in Goa.
We have been allocated with an interim annual mining quantity of 5.5mt out of the total cap of 20mt for FY2015 of saleable ore which is expected to progressively increase in coming years.
The State Government of Goa, has renewed the mining leases and Vedanta expects to start mining activities at iron ore mines at Goa in the second half of fiscal 2016, after receipt of all other regulatory clearances.
The carrying value of assets affected as at 31 March 2015 is US$736.3 million 31 March 2014: US$709.9 million.
Management has reviewed the carrying value of the assets as at the balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of these assets and concluded that there was no impairment as the recoverable amount estimated based on fair value less costs of disposal exceeded the carrying amounts.
viii Assessment of Impairment at Western Cluster Limited WCL The Project in Liberia is at the exploratory stage and the Group has considered the suspension of exploration in Liberia due to the Ebola epidemic and falling iron ore prices as an indication for impairment.
The Group expects to start mining activities at iron ore mines in Liberia during fiscal 2020, after receipt of all regulatory clearances and approval of mining leases.
Hence, the Group has reviewed the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment at WCL as at balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of these assets and concluded that there was no impairment because the recoverable amount estimated based on fair value less costs of disposal exceeded the carrying amounts.
The carrying value of assets as at 31 March 2015 is US$224.8 million.
ix Assessment of Impairment at Konkola Copper Mines KCM The KCM operations in Zambia have experienced operational challenges, a more challenging price environment, combined with rising electricity costs and increases in mining royalties.
Due to these factors, the Group has reviewed the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment at KCM as at the balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of the assets and concluded that other than the specific assets identified and disclosed in Note 5, there was no impairment because the recoverable amount estimated based on fair value less costs of disposal exceeded the carrying amounts.
The carrying value of assets as at 31 March 2015 is US$2,010.3 million.
x Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs Provision is made for costs associated with restoration and rehabilitation of mining sites as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
Such restoration and closure costs are typical of extractive industries and they are normally incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
The costs are estimated on the basis of closure plans and the estimated discounted costs of dismantling and removing these facilities and the costs of restoration are capitalised as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
A corresponding provision is created on the liability side.
The capitalised asset is charged to the income statement over the life of the operation through the depreciation of the asset and the provision is increased each period via unwinding the discount on the provision.
Management estimates are based on local legislation and or other agreements.
The actual costs and cash outflows may differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, changes in prices, analysis of site conditions and changes in restoration technology.
xi Provisions and liabilities Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events that can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which may be subject to change especially when taken in the context of the legal environment in India.
The actual cash outflows may take place over many years in the future and hence the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into account the changing circumstances and other factors that influence the provisions and liabilities.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 147 2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty continued xii Contingencies and commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation, taxation and other claims against the Group.
Where it is managements assessment that the outcome cannot be reliably quantified or is uncertain the claims are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the likelihood of an adverse outcome is remote.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the notes but are not provided for in the financial statements.
While considering the possible, probable and remote analysis of taxation, legal and other claims, there is always a certain degree of judgement involved pertaining to the application of the legislation which in certain cases is supported by views of tax experts and or earlier precedents in similar matters.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of the legal proceedings, the Group does not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on the Groups financial position or profitability.
These are set out in Note 38 and Note 42. xiii The HZL and BALCO call options The Group had exercised its call option to acquire the remaining 49% interest in BALCO and 29.5% interest in HZL.
The Government of India has however, contested the validity of the options and disputed their valuation performed in terms of the relevant agreements the details of which are set out in Note 39.
In view of the lack of resolution on the options, the non-response to the exercise and valuation request from the Government of India, the resultant uncertainty surrounding the potential transaction and the valuation of the consideration payable, the Group considers the strike price of the options to be at fair value, accordingly, the value of the option would be nil, and hence, the call options have not been recognised in the financial statements.
Segment information The Group is a diversified natural resources group engaged in exploring, extracting and processing minerals and oil & gas.
We produce zinc, lead, silver, copper, aluminium, iron ore, oil & gas and commercial power and have presence across India, Zambia, South Africa, Namibia, Ireland, Australia, Liberia, UAE and Sri Lanka.
The Group is also in the business of port operations in India.
The Groups reportable segments defined in accordance with IFRS 8 are as follows: Zinc-India Zinc-International Oil & Gas Iron Ore Copper-India Australia Copper-Zambia Aluminium Power The components not meeting the quantitative threshold for reporting are being reported as Others.
Management monitors the operating results of reportable segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and for assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the EBITDA of each segment.
Business segment financial data includes certain corporate costs, which have been allocated on an appropriate basis.
Inter-segment sales are charged based on prevailing market prices.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014.
Items after operating profit are not allocated by segment.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 148 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
2 Depreciation and amortisation is also provided to the chief operating decision maker on a regular basis.
3 Transfer prices between operating segment sales are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties except sales from power segment amounting to US$83.8 million for the year ended 31 March 2015 March 2014: US$36.6 million, which is at cost, within the same legal entity.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 149 3.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by country in which the customer is located, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 150 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets and additions to property, plant and equipment, analysed by the country in which the assets are located.
No material non-current assets are located in the United Kingdom and no significant additions to property, plant and equipment have been made there.
Information about major customer Included in revenue from the Oil & Gas segment are revenues of US$1,393.2 million US$1,742.6 million year ended 31 March 2014, which arose from sales to the Groups largest customer.
No other customer contributed 10% or more to the Groups revenue during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Total revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Revenue from sales of goods 12,878.7 12,945.0 Other operating income 104.0 84.0 Investment revenue 832.6 687.7 Total 13,815.3 13,716.7 5.
Special items Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Tax effect of special items special tax Special items Tax effect of Special items US$ million Special items items after tax Special items special items after tax 1a Impairment of oil & gas assets 6,642.1 2,138.0 4,504.1 1b Impairment of mining reserves and assets 52.3 52.3 81.6 17.8 63.8 Total impairment charge 6,694.4 2,138.0 4,556.4 81.6 17.8 63.8 2 Voluntary retirement schemes redundancy costs 15.1 5.1 10.0 3 Provision for receivables 36.6 12.5 24.1 4 Provision for investment in coal blocks 5.4 1.8 3.6 5 Acquisition & restructuring related costs 0.4 0.4 2.6 2.6 6 Land regularisation fee 16.6 16.6 7 Provision for contractor dispute 8.2 8.2 22.1 6.5 15.6 8 Special tax item 52.8 52.8 Special items 6,744.2 2,205.1 4,539.1 138.0 29.4 108.6 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 151 5.
Special items continued 1 Impairment charge During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group has recognised: a Impairment charge on its oil & gas assets of US$6,642.1 million mainly relating to the Rajasthan block and Sri Lanka block, triggered by the significant fall in crude oil prices.
Of this charge, US$2,162.1 million has been recorded against oil & gas properties and US$4,480.0 million against exploratory and evaluation assets.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in long-term prices may result in additional impairment.
For oil & gas properties, CGUs identified are on the basis of a PSC Production Sharing Contract level as it is the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
The recoverable amount of the CGU, US$5,825.5 million, was determined based on the fair value less costs of disposal approach, a level-3 valuation technique in the fair value hierarchy, as it more accurately reflect the recoverable amount based on our view of the assumptions that would be used by a market participant.
This is based on the cash flows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production sharing contract PSC cessation of production from each producing field based on current estimates of reserves and risked resources.
Reserves assumptions for fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow tests consider all reserves that a market participant would consider when valuing the asset, which are usually broader in scope than the reserves used in a value-in-use test.
Discounted cash flow analysis, used to calculate fair value less costs of disposal uses assumption for short-term five years oil price and the long-term nominal price of US$84 per barrel derived from a consensus of various analyst recommendations.
Thereafter, these have been inflated at a rate of 2.5%.
The cash flows are discounted using the post-tax nominal discount rate of 10.32% derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
The impairment loss relates to the Oil & Gas business reportable segments, however this has been shown as special items and does not form part of the segment result for the purpose of segment reporting.
The impairment charge of US$4,480.0 million of exploratory and evaluation assets also includes a US$788.1 million impairment charge relating to exploratory wells in Sri Lanka, as the development of hydrocarbons in the said block is not commercially viable at the current prices.
b US$52.3 million impairment charge relating to underground assets in Nchanga in Konkola Copper Mines Plc on account suspension of operations and the fall in copper prices.
Of this charge, US$47.2 million has been recorded against mining property and leases and US$5.1 million against plant and equipment.
Impairment for the year ended 31 March 2014 includes: US$47.5 million, impairment of mining reserve and Land assets at Lisheen.
This is as a result of fall in the forecasted LME prices of Zinc and Lead.
US$11.0 million, impairment of mining assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium at Lanjigarh as the MOEF has rejected the Stage II forest clearance for the Niyamgiri mining project.
US$23.1 million, impairment of COP F&D mining assets of KCM at Nchanga, Zambia as the mine has been put under maintenance following a dispute with the mining contractor.
2 During the year ended 31 March 2014, voluntary retirement schemes were considered by management to be a one off in nature and therefore classified as special items.
Following managements review, non-material voluntary retirement scheme costs incurred during the year have been deemed as operational costs not classified as special items.
3 In respect of iron ore mining at Goa, the Supreme Court has ruled that, out of the sale proceeds of inventory of excavated ore lying unsold, the leaseholder would be paid only the average cost of excavation.
However, the carrying value includes the amortisation based on the fair value of mining reserves determined at the time of acquisition.
Consequently, the excess of the carrying value of receivables over the net realisable value has been written off.
4 Relates to the provision recognised in respect of expenditure incurred on cancelled coal blocks allotted to Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to the order of the Supreme Court of India.
5 Acquisition related costs include costs of Group simplification and restructuring and other acquisition related costs.
6 Payments made pursuant to amendment during the year ended 31 March 2014 under the Land Revenue Code for regulating mining dumps at Goa.
7 Relates to a provision recognised following a dispute with a mining contractor at KCM Zambia.
8 As a result of amendments to the Zambian Mining Tax regime, effective from 1 January 2015, the tax rate on mining operations excluding mineral processing activities was reduced from 30% to 0%.
The deferred tax liability in relation to mining operations was therefore reversed in the period, resulting in a credit to the income statement of US$52.8 million.
An announcement from the Zambian cabinet on 20 April 2015 stated that further amendments will be made to the Zambian Mining Tax regime, effective from 1 July 2015.
The changes will include reinstating the tax rate on mining operations from 0% to 30%, and increasing the tax rate on mineral processing to 35%.
These rates were not enacted as at 31 March 2015 and therefore have not been used to measure deferred tax balances at 31 March 2015.
Further guidance is being sought from the Government to determine the impact of the proposed amendment.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 152 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Investment revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Interest income on loans and receivables 29.3 31.3 Interest income on cash and bank balances 139.9 202.3 Change in fair value of financial assets held for trading 250.8 383.5 Profit on disposal of financial assets held for trading 406.1 65.1 Dividend income on financial assets held for trading 0.3 0.9 Foreign exchange gain on cash and liquid investments 6.2 4.8 Capitalisation of interest income 0.2 832.6 687.7 7.
Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 1 US$ million 2015 2014 Interest on loans, overdrafts and bonds a 1,116.8 1,115.2 Coupon interest on convertible bonds Note 28 86.8 108.7 Accretive interest on convertible bonds Note 28 76.6 187.2 Total interest charge on convertible bonds b 163.4 295.9 Other borrowing and finance costs c 194.1 83.5 Total interest cost a b c 1,474.3 1,494.6 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 30 36.8 21.8 Net interest on defined benefit arrangements Note 33 9.2 6.8 2 Capitalisation of borrowing costs Note 17 133.1 83.4 1,387.2 1,439.8 1 Restated refer Note 1.
2 All borrowing costs are capitalised using rates based on specific borrowings with the interests ranging between 1.9% to 12.2% per annum except in the Aluminium segment where general borrowing costs were capitalised at a rate of 9.0% per annum.
Other gains and losses [net] Year ended Year ended 31 31 March March 1 US$ million 2015 2014 Gross foreign exchange gains and losses 80.8 360.3 Qualifying exchange losses capitalised Note 17 14.4 73.0 Net foreign exchange gains and losses 66.4 287.3 Change in fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value 1.1 1.1 Change in fair value of embedded derivative on convertible bonds Note 28 4.7 Net loss gain arising on qualifying hedges and non-qualifying hedges 9.4 3.8 76.9 279.9 1 Restated refer Note 1.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 153 9.
Profit for the year has been stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Depreciation & amortisation 2,005.7 2,203.1 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 3,905.0 4,014.2 Auditors remuneration for audit services 2.4 2.4 Research and development 0.8 0.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.6 4.4 Provision for receivables 80.4 35.5 Impairment of mining reserves and assets 52.3 81.6 Impairment of oil & gas assets 6,642.1 Staff costs 812.8 801.6 1 Foreign exchange gains and losses 82.8 305.7 1 Includes foreign exchange losses on non-operational monetary items of US$66.4 million 31 March 2014: US$287.3 million, and on operational monetary items of US$22.6 million 31 March 2014: US$23.2 million.
It also includes Foreign exchange gain on cash and liquid investments of US$6.2 million 31 March 2014: US$4.8 million.
Auditors remuneration The table below shows the fees payable globally to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for statutory external audit and audit related services, as well as fees paid to other accountancy firms for statutory external audit and audit related services in each of the two years ended 31 March: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of Vedanta Resources plc annual accounts 0.9 0.8 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.6 1.6 Total audit fees 2.5 2.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.3 2 Tax services 0.4 0.5 3 Corporate finance services 0.5 0.6 4 Other services 0.2 0.4 Total non-audit fees 2.5 2.8 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor 5.0 5.2 Audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.4 0.5 Non-audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total fees paid to other auditors 0.5 0.6 1 Other services pursuant to legislation principally comprise assurance services, being quarterly reviews of the Groups subsidiaries results and the half year review of the Groups results.
2 Tax services principally comprise certification and assurance services as required by Indian tax regulations.
3 Corporate finance services principally comprise Group simplification and other acquisition related certifications.
These assurance-related services are ordinarily provided by the auditor.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 154 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Employee numbers and costs Average number of persons employed by the Group in the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March Class of business 2015 2014 Zinc 7,428 7,681 India 5,439 5,797 International 1,989 1,884 Iron ore 3,465 3,708 Copper 8,710 9,142 India Australia 1,185 1,268 Zambia 7,525 7,874 Aluminium 5,932 6,404 Power 358 349 Oil & gas 1,684 1,734 Other 140 136 27,717 29,154 Costs incurred during the year in respect of employees and Executive Directors Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Salaries and wages 733.8 726.3 Defined contribution pension scheme costs Note 33 30.7 25.7 Defined benefit pension scheme costs Note 33 19.7 16.7 Share-based payments charge 28.6 32.9 812.8 801.6 12.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Current tax: UK Corporation tax 19.3 19.3 Foreign tax India 562.7 494.4 Zambia 1.0 Australia 0.1 0.8 Africa and Europe 22.1 37.7 Other 4.4 3.7 570.8 554.3 Deferred tax: Note 31 Deferred tax impact on impairment on Oil & Gas assets Note 5 2,138.0 Deferred tax reversal due to change in tax regime at Zambia Note 5 52.8 Deferred tax others 232.5 425.6 2,423.3 425.6 1 Net tax credit charge 1,852.5 128.7 Effective tax rate 32.8% 11.5% 1 Includes tax credit on special items and tax credit special items of US$2,205.1 million during the year ended 31 March 2015 31 March 2014: US$29.4 million.
The deferred tax benefit recycled from equity to the income statement is US$6.0 million 2014: US$0.3 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 155 12.
Tax continued During year ended 31 March 2014, consequent to Group restructuring Note 45, the income tax returns of the Indian subsidiaries subject to the merger were refiled on a combined basis as the newly amalgamated Indian subsidiary, Vedanta Limited formerly known as Sesa Sterlite Limited.
The effective date of the merger was 1 January 2011 and refiling the tax returns from this date resulted in a lower tax liability through offsetting previously unutilised losses which arose in some merged entities in these years against taxable profits which arose in other merged entities.
This resulted in a reversal of the current tax provision of US$257 million partially offset by the related net reversal of deferred tax assets of US$81.1 million.
Since this was not directly related to the equity restructuring, the net tax credit of US$175.9 million was recognised in the income statement.
Tax expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Tax effect of Special items Note 5 2,152.3 29.4 Special tax item deferred tax reversal due to a change in the tax regime in Zambia Note 5 52.8 Net tax credit special items 2,205.1 29.4 Tax expense others 352.6 158.1 Net tax credit expense 1,852.5 128.7 Deferred tax recognised in the income statement: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Accelerated capital allowances including fair value adjustments 2,634.1 463.1 Unutilised tax losses 203.4 517.1 Other temporary differences 7.4 371.6 2,423.3 425.6 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$5,768.3 million 2014: US$6,662.7 million.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before tax at the Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Accounting loss profit before tax 5,640.2 1,118.1 At Indian statutory income tax rate of 33.99% 2014: 33.99% 1,917.1 380.0 Unrecognised tax losses 107.6 110.6 Disallowable expenses other permanent differences 86.5 69.0 Dividend distribution tax 68.1 64.4 Non-taxable income 73.0 63.0 Impact of tax rate difference 118.8 256.4 1 Impact of increase in income tax surcharge 151.0 Impact of change in tax regime Note 5 52.8 Tax holiday and similar exemptions 238.8 642.0 Minimum alternative tax 31.3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 48.2 9.5 2 Vedanta Limited merger impact 175.9 At effective income tax rate of 32.8% 2014: 11.5% 1,852.5 128.7 1 The deferred tax liability arising in respect of the fair values uplift of Cairn India increased due to an increase in the surcharge payable by Indian companies from 5% to 10%.
2 Relates to a reversal of the current tax provision of US$257 million consequent to Group restructuring refer Note 45, partially offset by the related net reversal of deferred tax assets of US$81.1 million.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 156 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Tax continued Certain businesses of the Group within India are eligible for specified tax incentives in the form of tax exemptions.
Most of such tax exemptions are relevant for the companies operating in India.
These are briefly described as under: The location-based exemption In order to boost industrial and economic development in undeveloped regions, provided certain conditions are met, profits of newly established undertakings located in certain areas in India may benefit from a tax holiday.
Such a tax holiday works to exempt 100% of the profits for the first five years from the commencement of the tax holiday, and 30% of profits for the subsequent five years.
This deduction is available only for units established up to 31 March 2012.
However, such undertaking would continue to be subject to the Minimum Alternative Tax MAT.
The Group has such types of undertakings at Haridwar and Pantnagar, which are part of Hindustan Zinc Limited Zinc India.
Sectoral benefit power plants To encourage the establishment of certain power plants, provided certain conditions are met, tax incentives exist to exempt 100% of profits and gains for any 10 consecutive years within the 15-year period following commencement of the power plants operation.
The Group currently has total operational capacity of 5,039MW of thermal based power generation facilities and wind power capacity of 273MW.
However, such undertakings generating power would continue to be subject to the MAT provisions.
The Group has power plants which benefit from such deductions, at the various locations of Hindustan Zinc Limited and Bharat Aluminium Company Limited where such benefits have been drawn and Vedanta Limited where no benefits have been drawn.
Sectoral benefit oil & gas Provided certain conditions are met, profits of newly constructed industrial undertakings engaged in the oil & gas sector may benefit from a deduction of 100% of the profits of the undertaking for a period of seven consecutive years.
This deduction is only available to blocks licensed prior to 31 March 2011.
However, such businesses would continue to be subject to the MAT provisions.
In the Group, Cairn India Limited benefits from such deductions.
In addition, the subsidiaries incorporated in Mauritius are eligible for tax credit to the extent of 80% of the applicable tax rate on foreign source income.
The total effect of such tax holidays and exemptions was US$238.8 million for the year ended 31 March 2015 31 March 2014: US$642.0million.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
24,206,816 treasury shares are excluded from the total outstanding shares for the calculation of EPS.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options and the Groups convertible bonds.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Net loss attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,798.6 196.0 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2015 2014 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 274.8 273.5 Effect of dilution: Share options 4.0 8.0 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 278.8 281.5 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 157 13.
Earnings per share Loss per share based on loss for the year Basic loss per share on loss for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2015 2014 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 1,798.6 196.0 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 274.8 273.5 Loss per share on loss for the year US cents per share 654.5 71.7 Diluted loss per share on loss for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2015 2014 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 1,798.6 196.0 Loss for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 1,798.6 196.0 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 274.8 273.5 Diluted loss per share on loss for the year US cents per share 654.5 71.7 The effect of 4 million 2014: 8 million potential ordinary shares, which relate to share option awards under the LTIP scheme, on the attributable loss for the year is anti-dilutive and thus these shares are not considered in determining diluted loss per share.
However, the effect of these awards on underlying attributable earnings is dilutive for the year ended 31 March 2014, and hence the potential ordinary shares are considered in determining underlying EPS below.
The loss for the year would be decreased if holders of the convertible bonds in Vedanta exercised their right to convert their bond holdings into Vedanta equity.
The impact on loss for the year of this conversion would be the reduction in interest payable on the convertible bond.
The adjustment in respect of convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive impact on earnings and is thus not considered in determining diluted EPS.
Earnings loss per share based on underlying profit loss for the year non-GAAP Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the management considers to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
The Groups underlying profit loss is the profit loss for the year after adding back special items, other losses gains net Note 8 and their resultant tax including taxes classified as special items and non-controlling interest effects.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2015 2014 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,798.6 196.0 Special items 5 6,744.2 138.0 Other losses gains net 76.9 279.9 Tax and non-controlling interest effect of special items including taxes classified as special items and other losses gains 5,061.4 181.7 Underlying attributable loss profit for the year 38.9 40.2 Basic loss earnings per share on Underlying loss profit for the year non-GAAP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2015 2014 Underlying loss profit for the year US$ million 38.9 40.2 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 274.8 273.5 Loss earnings per share on underlying loss profit for the year US cents per share 14.2 14.7 http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 158 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued Diluted loss earnings per share on underlying loss profit for the year non-GAAP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2015 2014 Underlying loss profit for the year US$ million 38.9 40.2 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company million 274.8 281.5 Diluted loss earnings per share on underlying loss profit for the year US cents per share 14.2 14.3 14.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201314: 39.0 US cents per share 201213: 37.0 US cents per share 107.5 101.8 Interim dividend paid during the year: 23.0 US cents per share 201314: 22.0 US cents per share 63.8 60.7 171.3 162.5 Proposed for approval at AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201415: 40 US cents per share 201314: 39 US cents per share 110.8 107.5 15.
Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Cost gross carrying amount 16.6 16.6 Accumulated impairment losses Net carrying amount at 31 March 16.6 16.6 Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following Cash Generating Units CGUs.
The allocation of goodwill to CGUs is as follows: US$12.2 million Copper India.
US$4.4 million arising on acquisition of Goa Energy Limited.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Company has undertaken an impairment review of goodwill of US$16.6 million as at 31 March 2015.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the relevant cash generating unit is considered to be insignificant in comparison with the total carrying value of the cash generating unit.
The carrying amount of goodwill was evaluated using the higher of fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD or value in use based on discounted future cash flows of the entities to which the goodwill pertains and comparing this to the total carrying value of the relevant cash generating units.
It was determined that the carrying amount of goodwill is not impaired.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 159 16.
Intangible assets Intangible assets include Port concession rights to operate a general cargo berth for handling coal at the outer harbour of the Visakhapatnam port on the east coast of India, rights to use treated water from a sewage treatment plant at Zinc India operations and software licences.
Port concession 1 2 US$ million rights Others Total Cost As at 1 April 2013 Addition 1.1 8.3 9.4 Transfer from tangible assets 98.1 8.0 106.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.7 1.5 0.8 As at 1 April 2014 99.9 14.8 114.7 Addition 0.8 4.7 5.5 Foreign exchange differences 4.0 0.9 4.9 As at 31 March 2015 96.7 18.6 115.3 Accumulated amortisation As at 1 April 2013 Charge for the year 3.5 3.0 6.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.4 0.4 As at 1 April 2014 3.5 2.6 6.1 Charge for the year 3.6 3.9 7.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.2 0.4 0.2 As at 31 March 2015 7.3 6.1 13.4 Net book value As at 1 April 2013 As at 1 April 2014 96.4 12.2 108.6 As at 31 March 2015 89.4 12.5 101.9 1 Vizag General Cargo Berth Private Limited VGCB, a special purpose vehicle, was incorporated for the coal berth mechanisation and upgrades at Visakhapatnam port.
VGCB is owned by Vedanta Limited and Leighton Welspun Contractors Private Limited in the ratio of 99.99 : 0.01 as on 31 March 2015 74:26 as on 31 March 2014.
The project is to be carried out on a design, build, finance, operate, transfer basis and the concession agreement between Visakhapatnam Port and VGCB was signed in June 2010.
In October 2010, VGCB was awarded with the concession after fulfilling conditions stipulated as a precedent to the concession agreement.
Visakhapatnam Port has provided, in lieu of a license fee, an exclusive license to VGCB for designing, engineering, financing, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and replacing the project project facilities and services.
The concession period is 30 years from the date of the award of the concession.
The capacity of the upgraded berth would be 10.18mmtpa and that the Visakhapatnam Port would be entitled to receive a 38.10% share of the gross revenue as royalty.
VGCB is entitled to recover a tariff from the user s of the project facilities and services as per its tariff notification.
The tariff rates are linked to the Wholesale Price Index WPI and would accordingly be adjusted as specified in the concession agreement every year.
The ownership of all infrastructure assets, buildings, structures, berths, wharfs, equipment and other immovable and movable assets constructed, installed, located, created or provided by VGCB at the project site and or in the ports assets pursuant to a concession agreement would be with VGCB until expiry of this concession agreement.
The cost of any repair, replacement or restoration of the project facilities and services shall be borne by VGCB during the concession period.
VGCB has to transfer all its rights, titles and interest in the project facilities and services free of cost to Visakhapatnam Port at the end of the concession period 2 Others include right to use of sewage treatment plant at Zinc-India which is amortised over 25 years.
The carrying value was US$7.7 million as on 31 March 2015.
It also includes Software licences which are amortised over a period of three years.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 160 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Other tangible fixed assets include office equipment and fixtures, and light vehicles.
At31March 2015, land with a carrying value of US$125.9 million 31 March 2014: US$122.8 million was not depreciated.
2 During the year ended 31 March 2015, interest and foreign exchange losses capitalised was US$147.5 million 31 March 2014: US$156.4 million.
3 Certain property, plant and equipment are pledged as collateral against borrowings, the details related to which have been described in Note 24 on Borrowings.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 161 18.
Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are required to be classified and accounted for as either available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss.
TheGroup only has financial asset investments classified as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 At 1 April 1.7 20.6 Disposal 16.4 Movements in fair value 2.1 Exchange difference 0.4 2.5 At 31 March 4.2 1.7 Financial assets investment represents quoted investments in equity shares that present the Group with an opportunity for returns through dividend income and gains in value.
These securities are held at fair value based on market prices.
These are classified as non-current as on 31 March 2015.
Other non-current assets As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Deposits, advances and other receivables due after one year 156.0 132.1 156.0 132.1 20.
Inventories As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Raw materials and consumables 975.8 952.9 Work-in-progress 486.0 557.7 Finished goods 143.9 231.9 1,605.7 1,742.5 Inventories with a carrying amount of US$801.8 million 2014: US$879.5 million have been pledged as security against certain bank borrowings of the Group.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Trade receivables 555.0 706.0 Amounts due from related parties Note 39 4.9 8.5 Prepayments 31.0 61.2 Deposits with Governments 281.3 169.9 Other receivables 967.0 794.3 1,839.2 1,739.9 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to 90 days.
Other receivables primarily include excise balances, customs balances, advances to suppliers and claims receivables.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 162 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22.
Liquid investments As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 1 Bank deposits 1,850.1 2,655.3 Other investments 6,006.0 5,913.2 7,856.1 8,568.5 1 Includes US$29.8 million of bank deposits at Jharsuguda Aluminium that is restricted in use as it relates to security deposits as directed by the courts in relation to a relief claim filed by a vendor Note 38.
Bank deposits are made for periods of between three months and one year, depending on the cash requirements of the companies within the Group and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
Other investments include mutual fund investments which are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reported through the income statement.
Liquid investments do not qualify for recognition as cash and cash equivalents due to their maturity period and risk of change in value of the investments.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Cash at bank and in hand 211.6 202.8 1 Short-term deposits 142.1 166.6 353.7 369.4 1 Includes US$66.5 million 2014: US$88.8 million of cash held in short-term deposit accounts that is restricted in use as it relates to unclaimed dividends, closure costs and future redundancy payments.
Short-term deposits are made for periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Borrowings As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Bank loans 11,474.9 10,916.2 Bonds 4,075.4 4,017.9 Other loans 14.5 15.6 Total 15,564.8 14,949.7 Borrowings are repayable as: Within one year shown as current liabilities 3,179.2 2,437.0 More than one year 12,385.6 12,512.7 Total 15,564.8 14,949.7 At 31 March 2015, the Group had available US$2,177.9 million 2014: US$2,370.6 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The Group facilities are subject to certain financial and non-financial covenants.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group has complied with all the covenants attached to the borrowing facilities, except for one facility at BALCO, where the Company expected a potential breach in Net Debt to EBITDA ratio.
For this expected breach, BALCO obtained a letter from the lender in February 2015 for waiver of testing of covenants for 201415.
The Group also obtained a permanent waiver from a lender for testing of minimum consolidated net worth covenant for the loans availed by the Company and at THL, MCNV, VAJL and VFJL.
The primary covenants which must be complied with include fixed charge cover ratio, net borrowing to EBITDA ratio, total net assets to borrowings ratio and net interest expense to EBITDA ratio.
The principal loans held by Group companies at 31 March 2015 were as follows: Vedanta Resources plc Long-term bonds In July 2008, the Company issued US$500.0 million bonds bearing a coupon rate of 8.75% and US$750.0 million bonds bearing a coupon rate of 9.50%.
US$500.0 million bonds due in January 2014 were duly paid.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$750.0 million 2014: US$750.0 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 163 24.
Borrowings continued In July 2011, the Company issued US$750.0 million bonds bearing a coupon rate of 6.75% and US$900.0 million bonds bearing a coupon rate of 8.25%.
The same is due for repayment in June 2016 and June 2021 respectively.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$1,650.0 million 2014: US$1,650.0 million.
In June 2013, the Company issued US$1,200 million bonds bearing a coupon rate of 6% and US$500.0 million at a coupon rate of 7.125%.
The same is due for repayment in January 2019 and May 2023.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$1,700.0 million 2014: US$ 1,700.0 million.
All the above bonds are issued in the United States of America USA pursuant to Rule 144A of the US Securities Act of 1933 Securities Act and outside of the USA in compliance with Regulations pursuant to the Securities Act.
The bonds are unsecured and are currently rated BB - by Standard & Poors and - Ba3 by Moodys.
Term loan In December 2010, the Company availed a facility from the ICICI Bank for US$180.0 million bearing an interest rate of three month GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
The first instalment of US$90.0 million due in December 2014 was duly repaid and the balance US$90.0 million is repayable in December 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$90.0 million 2014: US$180.0 million.
In January 2011, the Company availed a facility from the ICICI Bank for US$150.0 million bearing an interest rate of three month US$LIBOR plus 389 basis points.
The same is repayable as US$75.0 million in January 2016 and the balance US$75.0 million in January 2017.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$150.0 million 2014: US$ 150.0 million.
In July 2011, the Company availed a facility from the ICICI Bank for US$500.0 million bearing an interest rate of three month US$LIBOR plus 390 basis points.
The same is repayable as US$250.0 million in January 2018 and the balance US$250.0 million in July 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$500.0 million 2014: US$500.0 million.
In March 2012, the Company availed a facility of US$300.0 million with the Standard Chartered Bank bearing an interest rate of LIBOR plus 415 basis points.
The same was due for repayment in June 2015.
This loan was fully prepaid in the month of May 2014.
In December 2012, the Company availed a syndicated facility with the State Bank of India as an agent for US$595.0 million bearing an interest rate of three month US$LIBOR plus 440 basis points.
The same is repayable in four equal instalments in February 2017, August 2017, July 2018 and January 2019.
This loan was fully prepaid in September 2014.
In March 2013, the Company entered into a three-year facility agreement with Deutsche Bank as an agent for an amount of US$185.0 million bearing an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 315 basis points.
The same is repayable in March 2016.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$185.0 million 2014: US$185.0 million.
In March 2013, the Company entered into two facility agreements with the ICICI Bank for an amount of US$170.0 million and US$180.0 million.
The loans bear interest rates of US$LIBOR plus 430 basis points and US$LIBOR plus 427 basis points respectively.
Of the said loan, US$170.0 million is repayable in three annual instalments beginning April 2018 the first instalment being 20% and the balance of two instalments being 40% each and the US$180.0 million facility is repayable in three equal annual instalments beginning February 2017.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$350.0 million 2014: US$350.0 million.
In April 2013, the Company entered into a Standby Letter of Credit agreement arranged by Axis Bank for an amount of US$150 million bearing an interest rate at three month US$LIBOR plus 290 basis points.
The facility is repayable in two equal annual instalments in April 2017 and April 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$148.5 million 2014: US$148.5 million.
In October 2013, the Company entered into a syndicated facility agreement with the Standard Chartered Bank as facility agent for borrowing up to US$500 million bearing an interest rate US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points.
The same is repayable as two equal instalments of US$250.0 million each in October 2017 and January 2018.
In November 2013, the Company entered into a two-year Revolving Credit Facility arranged by The Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered Bank for borrowing up to US$100 million at an interest rate US$LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The same is repayable in August 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$100.0 million 2014: US$81.0 million.
In December 2013, the Company entered into a facility agreement with the Bank of India for borrowing up to US$100 million at an interest rate US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points.
The same is repayable in two equal instalments of US$50.0 million each in October 2017 and January 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$100.0 million 2014: US$100.0 million.
In March 2014, the Company entered into a US$500 million syndicated facility agreement with Axis Bank as the lead arranger.
The facility bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 352 basis points.
The facility was fully drawn in September 2014.
The same is repayable as US$100.0 million in December 2018, US$150.0 million in March 2019 and US$250.0 million in September 2019.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$500.0 million.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 164 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued In March 2015, the Company entered into a facility agreement with the State Bank of India for US$350 million.
Out of said facility US$100 million Undrawn US$75.0 million bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 370 basis points and is repayable in March 2020.
Balance undrawn facility of US$250 million bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 403 basis points with repayment in two instalments being US$100 million and US$150 million at the end of 72 and 84 months respectively after initial draw down.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$25.0 million.
Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited TMHL Term loan In May 2013, the Group tied up a term loan facility of US$1,200 million borrowed by TMHL through a syndicate of banks with the Standard Chartered Bank SCB as facility agent to partly refinance US$2,664 million drawn to meet the funding requirements for the acquisition of a 28.5% stake in Cairn India Limited in December 2011.
The facility bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and is due for repayment in four equal annual instalments starting June 2015.
The facility of US$2,664 million due for repayment as US$1,350.0 million in June 2013 and US$1,314.4 million in December 2014 was fully prepaid in June 2013.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$1,200.0 million 2014: US$1,200.0 million.
In August 2014, the Group tied up a US$500 million facility with the Standard Chartered Bank and First Gulf Bank PJSC of which US$250 million is under a commodity murabaha structure Islamic financing and balance US$250 million is under a conventional loan structure.
Out of the said facility US$287.5 million bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points with an average maturity of about five years from the date of first drawdown in August 2014 and balance amount of US$212.5 million bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 340 basis points with an average maturity of about six years from the date of first drawdown in August 2014.
Vedanta Limited Term loan Jharsuguda Aluminium has obtained a US$1,599.6 million loan from the State Bank of India SBI at a floating interest rate of SBI bank base rate plus 175 basis points, secured by a first priority charge by way of pledge of all present and future unencumbered and encumbered movable fixed assets for the project, a first charge by way of mortgage on all present and future immovable fixed assets for the project and second charge on the current assets of the Aluminium division of the project.
During the current year, the total outstanding amount as at 31 March 2014 has been repaid.
In March 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium had availed a facility of US$287.5 million from Axis Bank at an average interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
In May 2014, the said facility was further enhanced by US$32.0 million.
During the year, the same has been down sell to the following banks: a Axis Bank US$39.9 million at an average interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
The facility is secured by first charge by way of mortgage pledge of movable immovable all present and future fixed assets of the Aluminium division for the project.
The same is repayable as US$32.0 million in February 2017 and US$7.9 million in February 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$39.9 million.
b Bank of India US$79.9 million at an average interest rate of Bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
The same is repayable as US$32.0 million in February 2017, US$32.0 million in February 2018 and US$15.9 million in February 2019.
As at 31March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$79.9 million.
c Corporation Bank US$79.9 million at an average interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
The same is repayable as US$12.0 million in February 2017, US$27.9 million in February 2018 and US$40.0 million in February 2019.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$79.9 million.
d Syndicate Bank US$79.9 million at an average interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
e Vijaya Bank US$39.9 million at an average interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points per annum.
The same is repayable as US$7.9 million in February 2017, US$16.0 million in February 2018 and US$16.0 million in February 2019.
In July 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium has availed a facility of US$798.8 million from the State Bank of India SBI at a floating interest rate of SBI Base rate plus 60 basis points.
The facility is secured by creating first pari passu charge by way of hypothecation of the movable fixed assets and mortgage on immovable fixed assets of the Aluminium division, both present and future.
The same is repayable in quarterly instalments up to December 2021.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$692.2 million.
In April 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium has availed a facility of US$319.5 million from the Bank of Baroda at a floating interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points.
The same is repayable in quarterly instalments up to December 2020.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$316.3 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 165 24.
Borrowings continued In April 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium has availed a facility of US$319.5 million from the Bank of India at a floating interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$304.4 million.
In April 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium availed a facility of US$79.9 million from the State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur at a floating interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$79.1 million.
In April 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium has availed a facility of US$163.8 million from the Syndicate Bank at a floating interest rate of the bank base rate plus 25 basis points.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$162.1 million.
In April 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium has availed a facility of US$159.8 million from the Union Bank of India at a floating interest rate of bank base rate plus 25 basis points.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$157.4 million.
In September 2013, Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant has availed a facility of US$159.8 million from the Axis Bank at an interest rate of 10.50% per annum.
The facility is secured by way of mortgage and charge on all the immovable properties, both present and future, of Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant except IPP Agricultural Land and a second charge by way of pledge on all the movable fixed assets of the Power division.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding was US$159.8 million.
The same has been duly repaid in September 2014.
In December 2013, Jharsuguda 2,400MW power plant has availed a facility of US$62.9 million from the Canara Bank at an interest rate of 10.2% per annum.
In August 2014, this facility has further been enhanced by US$95.9 million.
The loan is repayable in 16 quarterly instalments from end of quarter starting after the moratorium period up to December 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$149.8 million.
Short-term loans In January 2015, Jharsuguda Aluminium availed a short-term borrowing facility in the form of export packing credit from Bank of America at an average rate of 9.50% per annum.
These loans were obtained to meet the working capital requirements.
The same is repayable in April 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$32.0 million.
In October 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium availed a short-term borrowing facility in foreign currency in the form of pre shipment export packing credit from the Bank of America at an average rate of LIBOR plus 6570 basis points.
The same is repayable as US$32.6 million in April 2015 and US$14.6 million in May 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$47.2 million.
Iron Ore Sesa obtained a short-term borrowing facility in foreign currency in the form of pre shipment export packing credit from various banks at average rate of US$LIBOR plus 55 basis points.
These loans were obtained to meet the working capital requirements of the Iron Ore Division.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$36.0 million 2014: US$48.5 million.
NCDs In October 2008, Jharsuguda Aluminium has issued NCDs of US$66.6 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 11.5% per annum.
These NCDs are secured and have the first pari passu charge over the identified assets including land and building of the issuer to the extent of 1.33 times of the issued amount.
These NCDs are repayable in three equal annual instalments starting October 2013.
The First two instalments, due for repayment of US$22.2 million each, has been paid in October 2013 and October 2014 respectively.
The balance of US$22.2 million is due for repayment in October 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$22.2 million.
In December 2012, April 2013 and July 2013, Vedanta Limited had issued NCDs in three tranches for US$79.8 million, US$191.7 million and US$399.4 million with an interest rate of 9.24%, 9.17% and 9.10% per annum respectively.
Out of the total NCDs US$191.7 million are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Vedanta Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of pledge on the movable fixed assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium division with a security cover of 1.25 times on the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of NCDs.
The balance NCDs of US$479.3 million are secured by way of mortgage on the immovable property of Vedanta Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of pledge on the movable fixed assets of Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant with a security cover of 1.25 times on the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of NCDs.
Of the total outstanding NCDs, US$79.8 million is repayable in December 2022, US$399.4 million in April 2023 and US$191.7 million in July 2023.
The NCDs have put and call options respectively at the end of five years from the respective date of allotment.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$671.0 million.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 166 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued In October, November and December 2012, Vedanta Limited had also issued NCDs in three tranches for US$79.9 each per tranche with an interest rate of 9.24%, 9.40% and 9.40% per annum respectively.
These NCDs are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Vedanta Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of a pledge on the movable fixed assets of Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant with a security cover of 1.25 times on the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of NCDs.
Of the total outstanding NCDs, US$79.9 million is repayable in October 2022, US$79.9 million in November 2022 and US$79.9 million in December 2022.
The NCDs have put and call options respectively at the end of five years from the respective date of allotment of the NCDs.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$239.6 million.
In October 2014, Iron Ore Sesa has also issued NCDs of US$239.7 million with an interest rate of 9.36% per annum.
These NCDs are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Vedanta Limited situated at Tuticorin in the State of Tamil Nadu and also by way of first ranking pari passu charge over movable fixed assets in relation to Vedanta Limiteds Iron Ore Sesa business pig iron & met coke assets and Power Plant assets located in Goa and the Copper plant assets located at Tuticorin with a security cover of 1.25 times on the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of the NCDs.
These NCDs are redeemable in two instalments as US$155.8 million in October 2017 and US$83.9 million in December 2017.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$239.7 million.
External commercial borrowing In August 2008, Jharsuguda Aluminium obtained an External Commercial Borrowing from the ICICI Bank, Singapore of US$100.0 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 240 basis points secured by negative lien undertaking on the assets of the Jharsuguda project of Aluminium division, both present and future, excluding assets already charged in favour of ICICI Bank and other lenders.
The same was repayable in August 2014.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding was US$25.0 million which has been duly repaid.
During the year Jharsuguda Aluminium obtained an External Commercial Borrowing from Axis Bank of US$500.0 million which has been refinanced by ICICI Bank and SCB at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 170 basis points prior to refinancing at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 400 basis points having a subservient charge on all present and future movable assets of Aluminium division.
The repayment is to be made in three equal instalments starting from April 2015.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a part of intercompany borrowing from Welter Trading Limited was refinanced through Axis Bank.
This has been further refinanced from Standard Chartered Bank for US$44.5 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 129 basis point prior to refinancing at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 360 basis points having a subservient charge on all present and future movable assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium.
The entire loan is repayable in July 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$44.5 million 2014: US$44.5 million.
Project buyers credit Jharsuguda Aluminium had extended credit terms relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment bearing an average interest rate of LIBOR plus 2655 basis points.
These are secured by all of the fixed assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium, immovable or movable, present and future, on a pari passu basis with other term lenders and with priority over other creditors.
Project buyers credit have an average maturity of May 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$2.0 million 2014: US$21.8 million.
Commercial papers During the year, Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant has issued commercial paper to various asset management companies bearing an average coupon rate of 8.72% for funding project payables.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$180.5 million 2014: US$257.1million.
During the year, Iron Ore Sesa has issued commercial papers for periods ranging up to one year bearing average interest rates ranging between 8.79% to 9.25%.
These commercial papers are used to meet working capital requirements of the Iron Ore division and are repayable in the next financial year.
As at 31 March 2015, the outstanding balance was US$380.2 million 2014: US$280.2 million.
KCM A term loan facility of US$820 million 2014: US$700 million has been obtained by KCM from Standard Bank.
The term loan facility is made up of three tranches: US$300 million Facility A, US$120 million Facility A1 and US$400 million Facility B drawn down on various dates with the last amount drawn in June 2014.
The facility was restructured in 2014.
The loan is secured against the fixed assets of KCM and a US$400.0 million corporate guarantee from Vedanta Resources plc.
Interest is payable quarterly at LIBOR plus 350 basis points for Facility A & A1 and LIBOR plus 250 basis points for Facility B.
The facility is repayable in 16 quarterly instalments commencing June 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$710.9 million 2014: US$590.9 million.
A general short-term banking facility incorporating multiple sub-facilities amounting to US$30 million 2014: US$50 million was provided by Stanbic Bank.
The facility was agreed upon on 1 June 2011.
Interest is payable monthly at three month US$LIBOR plus 350 basis points.
The facility is repayable strictly on demand.
The tenure for the facility is 12 months.
The amount drawn as at 31 March 2015 under this facility is US$27.8 million 2014: US$49.9 million.
A general short-term banking facility incorporating multiple sub-facilities amounting to US$50 million 2014: US$85 million was provided by Standard Chartered Bank.
The facility was agreed upon on 26 May 2011.
The facility bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 300 basis points.
The facilities are repayable strictly on demand.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$50.0 million 2014: US$49.6 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 167 24.
Borrowings continued BALCO Non-convertible debentures NCDs In November 2008, BALCO issued NCDs of US$79.9 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 12.25% per annum.
These NCDs are secured and have the first pari passu charge on the fixed assets of BALCO including land and buildings.
These NCDs were repayable in three equal instalments in November 2013, November 2014 and November 2015.
The first two instalments had been duly repaid.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$26.6 million repayable in November 2015.
In May 2013, BALCO issued NCDs of US$79.9 million to Kotak Mahindra Bank, Axis Bank Limited and Wipro Limited at an interest rate of 8.58% per annum Series-I and 8.60% per annum Series-II.
These NCDs are secured and have the first pari passu charge on the fixed assets of BALCO.
These NCDs are repayable in two equal instalments in November 2015 and May 2016.
In August 2014, BALCO issued NCDs of US$79.9 million to Banks and Financial Institutions arranged by Deutche Bank at an interest rate of 10.25% per annum.
These NCDs are repayable in August 2017.
Project buyers credit BALCO has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment at an average interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 112 basis points.
Project buyers credits have an average maturity of August 2016.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$59.6 million 2014: US$114.5 million.
External commercial borrowing In August 2011, BALCO obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from the State Bank of India, London of US$200 million at an interest rate of six month US$LIBOR plus 260 basis points secured by first pari passu charges on all the fixed assets excluding land of BALCO projects both present and future along with secured lenders.
The above loan is repayable in three equal annual instalments starting August 2016.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$200.0 million 2014: US$200.0 million.
In November 2008, BALCO has also obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from DBS Bank Singapore of US$24.8 million at an interest rate of six month US$LIBOR plus 345 basis points secured by first pari passu charges on all movable fixed assets including plant and machinery related to 1,200MW power project and 3.25 LTPA Smelter projects both present and future along with secured lenders.
First instalment due for repayment of US$8.3 million has been paid in November 2013.
The balance two equal instalments were due for repayment in November 2014 and November 2015.
The above loan had been fully prepaid in November 2014.
Commercial paper During the year, BALCO has issued commercial papers bearing an average coupon rate of 8.95% per annum to various asset management companies for the funding of project loan repayment and other payables.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$317.1 million 2014: US$186.4 million.
Talwandi Sabo NCDs In December 2010 and January 2011, Talwandi Sabo has issued NCDs of US$239.7 million to the ICICI Bank at a rate of 9.8% per annum.
These NCDs are secured by first pari passu charge on the assets of Talwandi Sabo both present and future, with an unconditional and irrevocable corporate guarantee by Vedanta Limited.
These NCDs have tenure of 13 years and are repayable in 12 equal instalments after 10 years after allotment.
These NCDs have a call option, five years after allotment.
In September 2014 two tranches, November 2014 and March 2015, Talwandi Sabo has also issued NCDs of US$131.8 million in four tranches of US$19.1 million, US$28.8 million, US$32.0 million and US$51.9 million respectively at an interest rate of 9.60% per annum, 9.70% per annum, 9.27% per annum and 8.91% per annum respectively, to various asset management companies for fresh project funding and repayment of loan.
These NCDs are repayable in tranches as US$19.1 million in September 2016, US$28.8 million in September 2017, US$32.0 million in November 2017 and balance US$51.9 million in April 2018.
As at 31March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$131.8 million.
Term loan In September 2014, Talwandi Sabo has availed a rupee term loan facility of US$79.9 million from the Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited at an interest rate of 10.10% per annum.
The facility is secured by first pari passu charge on the assets of Talwandi Sabo both present and future, with an unconditional and irrevocable corporate guarantee by Vedanta Limited.
The facility is repayable as first 50% of the loan amount in 24 equal quarterly instalments starting from December 2015 and balance of 50% of loan amount in March 2021.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 168 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued Project buyers credit Talwandi Sabo has accessed buyers credit in respect of purchase of capital goods at an average rate of a six month US$LIBOR plus 69 basis points.
The average maturity of the project buyers credit is January 2016.
As at 31 March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$177.1 million 2014: US$481.0 million.
Commercial paper During the year, Talwandi Sabo has issued commercial paper to various asset management companies for the funding of project loan repayment bearing an average coupon rate of 9.06% per annum.
As at 31 March 2015, Talwandi Sabo had an outstanding balance of US$417.0 million 2014: US$106.5 million.
VGCB NCDs In May 2013, VGCB has issued NCDs of US$47.9 million to IDFC Limited at a rate of 9% per annum to refinance the existing term loan from Axis Bank.
These NCDs are secured by 1.1 times on the face value of outstanding debentures, by way of charge on the fixed assets of VGCB atall time during the currency of the debentures.
Debentures have a tenure of three years with put and call option at the end of the second year.
As at 31March 2015, the amount outstanding is US$47.9 million.
Non-equity non-controlling interests As at 31 March 2015, non-equity non-controlling interests amounts to US$11.9 million, being deferred shares in KCM held by ZCCM.
The deferred shares have no voting rights or rights to KCMs dividends, but are entitled on a winding up to a return of up to US$0.99 per share once all of KCMs ordinary shares have received a distribution equal to their par value and any share premium created on their issue and which remains distributable to them.
The deferred shares are held at historic cost, being the fair value attributed to them at the time of initial acquisition of KCM in the year ended 31 March 2005.
They are classified as non-current liabilities as they are repayable only on the winding up of KCM, for an amount different than the pro rata share of net assets upon liquidation.
The shares have been valued at US$0.99 per share, which is the maximum amount payable to the deferred shareholders.
These deferred shares have not been discounted as the effect would not be material.
2 Debt related derivatives exclude derivative financial assets and liabilities relating to commodity contracts and forward foreign currency contracts.
3 Other non-cash changes comprises of mark to market of embedded derivatives, interest accretion on convertible bonds and amortisation of borrowing costs for which there is no cash movement.
It also includes US$250.8 million 2014: US$344.4 million of fair value movement in investments.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 169 27.
Trade and other payables a Current trade payables As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Trade payables 2,159.9 2,170.2 Bills of exchange payable 1,512.4 1,509.5 Accruals and deferred income 354.4 362.4 Other trade payables 703.3 647.9 4,730.0 4,690.0 Non-interest bearing trade payables are normally settled on 60 to 90-day terms.
Interest bearing trade payables amount to US$1,567.5 million 2014: US$1,615.2 million.
Bills of exchange are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days.
Bills of exchange payable comprise of credit availed from financial institutions for direct payment to suppliers for raw materials purchased.
The fair values of the trade and other payables are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
b Non-current trade payables As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Other trade payables 194.3 203.3 194.3 203.3 Other trade payables primarily comprise amounts withheld as retentions, payable to suppliers of capital projects after satisfactory completion of contractual commissioning period, which are payable after the completion of commissioning.
The fair value of the non-current trade payables are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
Convertible bonds Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 A. VRJL 1,096.4 1,177.1 B. VRJL-II 6.6 65.7 C. FCCB Vedanta Limited 678.7 1,103.0 1,921.5 http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 170 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Convertible bonds continued A. Vedanta Resource Jersey Limited VRJL issued 5.5% US$1,250 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 13 July 2009.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 24 August 2009 to 6 July 2016.
Conversion option exercised before 15 August 2012 were convertible at US$36.48 per share.
Conversion options exercised on or after 15August 2012 were convertible at US$35.58 per share.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 28 July 2012 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 13 July 2014.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the issuer on or at any time after 28 July 2013, subject to the conditions as part of the issue.
Bondholders had exercised put option on 14 July 2014, accordingly bonds with a face value of US$113.8 million 9.1% of total face value were redeemed during the year ending 31 March 2015.
The net proceeds of the convertible issue have been split between the liability element and equity component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company, as follows: Year ended Year ended 31March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Opening liability 1,177.1 1,056.0 Effective interest cost 97.3 191.0 Conversion of Convertible bonds 1.2 Repayment of Convertible bonds 113.8 Coupon interest paid accrued 64.2 68.7 Closing liability 1,096.4 1,177.1 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.7% 2014: 17.3%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2015 is US$1,056.9 million 31 March 2014: US$1,241.7 million.
B. Vedanta Resource Jersey II Limited VRJL-II issued 4.0% US$883 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 30 March 2010.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL-II, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 10 May 2010 to 23 March 2017.
Conversion option exercised before 15 August 2012, were convertible at US$51.9251 per share.
Conversion Options exercised on or after 15August 2012, are convertible at US$50.6460, as per the terms of offering circular.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 14 April 2013 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 29 April 2013 to 30 March 2015.
Bondholders exercised the put option in March 2015, resulting in redemption of US$65.1 million bonds during the year ending 31 March 2015.
The maturity of remaining bonds is March 2017 At the inception the net proceeds of the convertible issue was split between the liability element and a derivative component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company.
The latter was not been recorded within equity due to the existence of partial cash settlement terms within the bond which prevent the adoption of compound financial instrument accounting.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Opening liability 65.7 753.6 Effective interest cost 8.9 11.9 Repayment of Convertible Bonds 65.1 694.3 Coupon interest paid accrued 2.9 5.5 Closing liability 6.6 65.7 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 15.0% 2014: 15.0%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2015 was US$7.8 million 31 March 2014: US$72.5 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 171 28.
Convertible bonds continued C. Vedanta Limited issued 4% US$500 million convertible bonds denominated in US dollars on 29 October 2009 which were due on 30October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into American Depository Share ADS to be issued by Vedanta Limited.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time before 29 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 42.8688 for every US$1,000 of principal which is equal to a conversion price of US$23.33 per ADS.
Pursuant to the effectiveness of Group simplification scheme in August 2014 refer Note 45 conversion rate has changed to 25.7213 ADSs every US$1,000 principal amount of notes which is equal to a conversion price of approximately US$38.88 per ADS.
Vedanta has the option subject to the terms of the bond to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 4 November 2012.
Vedanta Limited had also issued 5% US$500 million convertible bonds denominated in US dollars on 30 October 2009 and due 31October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of Vedanta Limited.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time after 10 December 2009 and before 24 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 13837.6384 for every US$100,000 principal.
Vedanta Limited has the option subject to certain conditions to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 30 October 2012.
As the functional currency of Vedanta Limited is INR, the conversion of the convertible bonds which are denominated in US dollars would not result in the settlement and exchange of a fixed amount of cash in INR terms, for a fixed number of its shares respectively.
Accordingly, the convertible bond must be separated into two component elements: a derivative component consisting of the conversion option carried at fair value and a liability component consisting of the debt element of the bonds.
Further details of the accounting for such instruments are provided in the Group accounting policies Note 2a.
The following table shows the movements in the Vedanta Limited bonds during the year on an aggregated basis: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Opening liability 678.7 624.9 Effective interest cost 57.2 92.9 Coupon interest paid 19.8 34.4 Decrease in fair value of derivative component 4.7 Repayment of FCCBs 716.1 Closing liability 678.7 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 12.7% 2014: 12.7% for 4% US$500 million convertible notes and 19.1% 31 March 2014: 19.4% for 5% US$500 million convertible notes.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding closing balance was US$716.8 million.
These convertible bonds were repaid during the year ended 31March 2015.
Summary of convertible bond movements: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Opening liability 1,921.5 2,434.5 Effective interest cost 163.4 295.8 Coupon interest paid 86.8 108.6 Conversion of convertible bonds 1.2 Decrease in fair value of derivative component 4.7 Repayment of bonds 895.1 694.3 Closing liability 1,103.0 1,921.5 http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 172 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at As at 31March 31March 1 1 US$ million 2015 2014 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 7,856.1 8,568.5 Financial instruments derivatives 16.8 70.2 Cash and cash equivalents 353.7 369.4 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 1,132.6 1,278.1 Other non-current assets 129.8 132.1 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 4.2 1.7 Total 9,493.2 10,420.0 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 45.8 146.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 4,808.2 4,772.6 2 Borrowings 16,667.8 16,871.2 Total 21,521.8 21,789.9 1 Excluding non-financial assets and liabilities.
2 Includes amortised cost liability portion of convertible bonds US$1,103.0 million 2014: US$1,921.5 million.
IFRS 13 requires additional information regarding the methodologies employed to measure the fair value of financial instruments which are recognised or disclosed in the accounts.
These methodologies are categorised per the standard as: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The below table summarises the categories of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: As at 31March 2015 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 7,856.1 Financial instruments derivatives 16.8 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 4.2 Total 7,860.3 16.8 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 45.8 Total 45.8 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 173 29.
Financial instruments continued As at 31March 2014 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 8,568.5 Financial instruments derivatives 70.2 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 1.7 Total 8,570.2 70.2 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 146.1 Total 146.1 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
No financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value were Level 3 fair value measurements.
The fair value of borrowings is US$16,790.9 million 2014: US$16,973.8 million, classified under Level 2 of fair value hierarchy.
For all other financial instruments, the carrying amount is either the fair value, or approximates to the fair value.
The fair value of financial asset investments represents the market value of the quoted investments and other traded instruments.
For other financials assets the carrying value is considered to approximate to fair value.
The fair value of financial liabilities is the market value of the traded instruments, where applicable.
Otherwise fair value is calculated using a discounted cash flow model with market assumptions, unless the carrying value is considered to approximate to fair value.
The fair value of the embedded derivative liability of the convertible bond has been calculated using the Black-Scholes model with market assumptions.
Derivative instruments and risk management The Groups businesses are subject to several risks and uncertainties including financial risks.
The Groups documented risk management policies act as an effective tool in mitigating the various financial risks to which the businesses are exposed in the course of their daily operations.
The risk management policies cover areas such as liquidity risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and capital management the latter covered in Note 34.
Risks are identified through a formal risk management programme with active involvement of senior management personnel and business managers at both the corporate and individual subsidiary level.
Each operating subsidiary in the Group has in place risk management processes which are in line with the Groups policy.
Each significant risk has a designated owner within the Group at an appropriate senior level.
The potential financial impact of the risk and its likelihood of a negative outcome are regularly updated.
The risk management process is coordinated by the Management Assurance function and is regularly reviewed by the Groups Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is aided by the GRMC, which meets every quarter to review risks as well as the progress against the planned actions.
Key business decisions are discussed at the monthly meetings of the Executive Committee.
The overall internal control environment and risk management programme including financial risk management is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Treasury management Treasury management focuses on capital protection, liquidity maintenance and yield maximisation.
The treasury policies are approved by the Board and adherence to these policies is strictly monitored at the Executive Committee meetings.
Day-to-day treasury operations of the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective finance teams within the framework of the overall Group treasury policies.
Long-term fund raising including strategic treasury initiatives are handled by a central team while short-term funding for routine working capital requirements is delegated to subsidiary companies.
A monthly reporting system exists to inform senior management of investments, debt, currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives.
The Group has a strong system of internal control which enables effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are supplemented by regular internal audits.
The investment portfolio is independently reviewed by CRISIL Limited and our portfolio has been rated as Very Good meaning highestsafety.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 174 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued The Group uses derivative instruments as part of its management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The Group does not enter into complex derivative transactions to manage the treasury and commodity risks.
Both treasury and commodities derivative transactions are normally in the form of forward contracts and interest rate and currency swaps and these are subject to the Group guidelines and policies.
Interest rate swaps are taken to achieve a balance between fixed and floating rates as described below under Interest risk and currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to non-US dollar currencies to US dollar currencies.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to the movement of base metal commodity prices on the London Metal Exchange.
Any decline in the prices of the base metals that the Group produces and sells will have an immediate and direct impact on the profitability of the businesses.
As a general policy, the Group aims to sell the products at prevailing market prices.
As much as possible, the Group tries to mitigate price risk through favourable contractual terms.
The Group undertakes hedging activity in commodities to a limited degree.
Hedging is used primarily as a risk management tool and, in some cases, to secure future cash flows in cases of high volatility by entering into forward contracts or similar instruments.
The hedging activities are subject to strict limits set out by the Board and to a strictly defined internal control and monitoring mechanism.
Decisions relating to hedging of commodities are taken at the Executive Committee level and with clearly laid down guidelines for their implementation by the subsidiaries.
Whilst the Group aims to achieve average LME prices for a month or a year, average realised prices may not necessarily reflect the LME price movements because of a variety of reasons such as uneven sales during the year and timing of shipments.
The Group is also exposed to the movement of international crude oil price and the discount in the price of Rajasthan crude oil to Brent price.
Copper The Groups custom smelting copper operations at Tuticorin is benefited by a natural hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch in quotational periods between the purchase of concentrate and the sale of finished copper.
The Groups policy on custom smelting is to generate margins from TC RCs, improving operational efficiencies, minimising conversion cost, generating a premium over LME on sale of finished copper, sale of by-products and from achieving import parity on domestic sales.
Hence, mismatches in quotational periods are managed to ensure that the gains or losses are minimised.
The Group hedges this variability of LME prices through forward contracts and tries to make the LME price a pass-through cost between purchases of copper concentrate and sales of finished products, both of which are linked to the LME price.
The Group also benefits from the difference between the amounts paid for quantities of copper content received and recovered in the manufacturing process, also known as free copper.
The Group hedges on a selective basis the free copper by entering into future contracts.
TC RCs are a major source of income for the Indian copper smelting operations.
Fluctuations in TC RCs are influenced by factors including demand and supply conditions prevailing in the market for mine output.
The Groups copper business has a strategy of securing a majority of its concentrate feed requirement under long-term contracts with mines.
KCM is largely an integrated copper producer and whenever hedging is done it is with an intention to protect the Group from price fluctuations in copper.
KCM also does hedging for its custom smelting operations, where back to back hedging is used to mitigate pricingrisks.
For the mining assets in Australia and Zambia, part of the production may be hedged to secure cash flows on a selective basis.
Aluminium The requirement of the primary raw material, alumina, is partly met from own sources and the rest is purchased primarily on negotiated price terms.
Sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
At present the Group on selective basis hedges the aluminium content in outsourced alumina to protect its margins.
The Group also enters into hedging arrangements for its aluminium sales to realise month of sale LME prices.
Zinc and lead The sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
The Group has some long-term volume contracts with some customers where the prices are linked to prevailing LME prices at the time of shipment.
The Group hedges custom production of Indian operations through forward contracts or other instruments.
Iron ore The Group sells iron ore production through e-auction route as mandated by the State Government of Karnataka in India.
Provisionally priced financial instruments On 31 March 2015, the value of net financial liabilities linked to commodities excluding derivatives accounted for on provisional prices was a liability of US$689.9 million 2014: liability of US$454.1 million.
These instruments are subject to price movements at the time of final settlement and the final price of these instruments will be determined in the financial year beginning 1 April 2015.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 175 29.
Financial instruments continued Set out below is the impact of a 10% increase in LME prices on profit loss for the year and total equity as a result of changes in value of the Groups commodity financial instruments as at 31 March 2015: Effect on profit loss Effect on total equity Closing LME as at of a 10% increase in the of a 10% increase in the US$ million except as stated 31 March 2015 LME 31 March 2015 LME 31 March 2015 Commodity price sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 6,050 62.2 62.2 Zinc 2,075 0.2 0.2 Lead 1,808 Effect on profit loss Effect on total equity Closing LME as at of a 10% increase in the of a 10% increase in the US$ million except as stated 31 March 2014 LME 31 March 2014 LME 31 March 2014 Commodity price sensitivity US$ US$ million US$ million Copper 6,636 49.6 49.6 Zinc 1,981 1.2 1.2 Lead 2,041 0.5 0.5 The above sensitivities are based on volumes, costs, exchange rates and other variables and provide the estimated impact of a change in LME prices on profit and equity assuming that all other variables remain constant.
Further, the impact of a 10% increase in closing copper LME for provisionally priced copper concentrate purchased at Vedanta Limited Copper division custom smelting operations is US$69.2 million 2014: US$54.2 million, which is a pass through in nature and as such will not have any impact on the profitability.
Financial risk and sensitivities The Groups Board approved financial risk policies comprise liquidity, currency, interest rate and counterparty risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative treasury activity but seeks to manage risk and optimise interest and commodity pricing through proven financial instruments.
a Liquidity The Group requires funds both for short-term operational needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
The Group generates sufficient cash flows from the current operations which together with the available cash and cash equivalents, and liquid financial asset investments provide liquidity both in the short-term as well as in the long-term.
Anticipated future cash flows, together with undrawn fund based committed facilities of US$1,208.2 million, and cash and liquid investments of US$8,209.8 million as at 31 March 2015, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the near future.
The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys are BBand Ba1 respectively 2014: BB and Ba1 respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms.
The Group generally maintains a healthy net gearing ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises see Note 34 for further details.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date is given in the table below.
The figures reflect the contractual undiscounted cash obligation of the Group: At 31 March 2015 US$ million Payment due by period 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables 4,509.0 229.3 63.0 6.9 4,808.2 1 Bank and other borrowings 4,171.8 2,981.0 8,730.4 3,476.1 19,359.3 1 Convertible bonds 65.8 1,161.5 1,227.3 Derivative liabilities 45.8 45.8 Total 8,792.4 4,371.8 8,793.4 3,483.0 25,440.6 1 Includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 176 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued At 31 March 2014 US$ million Payment due by period 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables 4,644.9 163.1 4,808.0 1 Bank and other borrowings 3,521.0 2,292.6 10,113.1 2,972.5 18,899.2 1 Convertible bonds 2,060.3 2,060.3 Derivative liabilities 118.7 27.3 146.1 Total 10,344.9 2,455.7 10,140.5 2,972.5 25,913.6 1 Includes contractual interest payment based on interest rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
At 31 March 2015, the Group had access to funding facilities both fund based and non-fund based of US$18,981.5 million of which US$2,177.9 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 5,270.9 3,189.5 2,081.4 12 years 3,265.4 3,265.4 25 years and above 10,445.2 10,348.7 96.5 Total 18,981.5 16,803.6 2,177.9 At 31 March 2014, the Group had access to funding facilities both fund based and non-fund based of US$19,241.8 million of which US$2,370.6 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 6,640.7 4,358.5 2,282.2 12 years 1,487.7 1,487.7 25 years and above 11,113.4 11,025.0 88.4 Total 19,241.8 16,871.2 2,370.6 Fund based facilities represent contractual agreements for financial institutions to provide cash, such as cash credit limits and term loans, whereas non-fund based facilities only give rise to an obligation to provide cash in certain circumstances, such as bank guarantees and letters of credit.
b Foreign currency The Groups presentation currency is the US dollar.
The majority of the assets are located in India and the Indian rupee is the functional currency for the Indian operating subsidiaries.
Exposures on foreign currency loans are managed through the Group-wide hedging policy, which is reviewed periodically to ensure that the risk from fluctuating currency exchange rates is appropriately managed.
Natural hedges available in the business are identified at each entity level and hedges are placed only for the net exposure.
Short-term net exposures are hedged progressively based on their maturity.
Longer exposures beyond one year are normally unhedged.
However all new long-term borrowing exposures are being hedged.
Vedanta has hedged some of its non-US dollar borrowings into US dollar borrowings by entering into cross-currency swaps.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 177 29.
Financial instruments continued The carrying amount of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in different currencies are as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Financial Financial Financial Financial US$ million assets liabilities assets liabilities US$ 1,362.1 14,216.3 2,517.9 15,716.0 INR 8,019.4 7,151.8 7,697.2 5,597.3 Kwacha 1.3 38.9 128.1 JPY 0.2 AUD 0.7 9.7 5.3 13.2 CAD 0.3 0.1 EURO 75.6 59.0 105.6 56.4 ZAR 14.8 21.8 28.7 26.5 NAD 9.8 23.2 30.5 6.1 Others 9.5 0.8 34.7 246.1 Total 9,493.2 21,521.8 10,420.0 21,789.9 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a Group company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of that entity with INR Indian rupee being the major foreign currency exposure of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit loss and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial instruments: 31 March 2015 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% Closing strengthening strengthening exchange of US dollar on of US dollar on US$ million rate net earning total equity INR 62.5908 192.3 236.1 Euro 0.9271 0.7 0.7 31 March 2014 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% Closing strengthening strengthening exchange of US dollar on of US dollar on US$ million rate net earnings total equity INR 60.0998 406.5 367.0 Euro 0.7278 8.3 19.6 The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 March 2015 where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiaries.
The sensitivities do not take into account the Groups sales and costs, and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange influenced factors.
c Interest rate risk At 31 March 2015, the Groups net debt of US$8,460.3 million 2014: US$7,919.5 million net debt comprised cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments of US$8,209.8 million 2014: US$8,937.9 million offset by debt of US$16,667.8 million 2014: US$16,871.2 million and debt derivative liability of US$2.3 million 2014: asset of US$13.8 million.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short-term and long-term floating rate instruments and on the refinancing of fixed rate debt.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings and the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt is determined by current market interest rates.
As at 31 March 2015, 50.2% 2014: 48.7% of the total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at a floating rate.
The floating rate debt is largely linked to US dollar LIBOR.
The Group also aims to minimise its average interest rates on borrowings by opting for a higher proportion of long-term debt to fund growth projects.
The Group invests cash and liquid investments in short-term deposits and debt mutual funds, some of which generate a tax-free return, to achieve the Groups goal of maintaining liquidity, carrying manageable risk and achieving satisfactory returns.
Floating rate financial assets are largely mutual fund investments which have debt securities as underlying assets.
The returns from these financial assets are linked to market interest rate movements: however the counterparty invests in the agreed securities with known maturity tenure and return and hence has manageable risk.
Additionally, the investments portfolio is independently reviewed by CRISIL Limited, and our investment portfolio has been rated as Very Good meaning highest safety.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 178 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued The exposure of the Groups financial assets to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Non-interest Non-interest Floating Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing rate financial financial Equity financial financial financial Equity financial US$ million assets assets investments assets assets assets investments assets Financial assets 5,419.6 2,820.1 4.2 1,232.5 5,784.9 3,259.7 1.7 1,303.5 Derivative assets 16.8 70.2 Total financial assets 5,419.6 2,820.1 4.2 1,249.3 5,784.9 3,259.7 1.7 1,373.7 The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Non-interest Non-interest Floating Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing rate financial financial financial financial financial financial US$ million liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Financial liabilities 8,711.9 9,506.7 3,257.4 8,996.0 9,478.4 3,169.4 Derivative liabilities 2.3 43.5 146.1 Total financial liabilities 8,714.2 9,506.7 3,300.9 8,996.0 9,478.4 3,315.5 The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate financial liabilities is 8.3% 2014: 8.0% and the weighted average period for which the rate is fixed is 3.0 years 2014: 4.5 years.
Considering the net debt position as at 31 March 2015 and the investment in bank deposits, corporate bonds and debt mutual funds, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
The below table illustrates the impact of a 0.5% to 2.0% change in interest rate of borrowings on profit loss and equity and represents managements assessment of the possible change in interest rates.
At 31 March 2015 Effect on US$ million profit for the Effect on Change in interest rates year total equity 0.5% 41.5 41.5 1.0% 82.9 82.9 2.0% 165.9 165.9 At 31 March 2014 Effect on US$ million profit for the Effect on Change in interest rates year total equity 0.5% 41.5 41.5 1.0% 83.1 83.1 2.0% 166.1 166.1 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 179 29.
Financial instruments continued d Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
Cash and liquid investments are held primarily in debt schemes of mutual funds, bonds and bank deposits with good credit ratings.
Defined limits are in place for exposure to individual counterparties in case of mutual fund houses and banks.
The large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured.
Moreover, given the diverse nature of the Groups businesses trade receivables are spread over a number of customers with no significant concentration of credit risk.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 other than the exception of a single customer in our oil & gas business, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups net sales or for any of the Groups primary businesses.
The history of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore, the Group does not expect any material risk on account of non-performance by any of our counterparties.
The Groups maximum gross exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2015 is US$9,493.2 million 2014: US$10,420.0 million.
Of the year end trade and other receivable balance the following, though overdue, are expected to be realised in the normal course of business and hence, are not considered impaired as at 31 March 2015: US$ million 2015 2014 Less than 1 month 39.1 44.7 Between 13 months 49.1 79.8 Between 312 months 40.3 23.0 Greater than 12 months 62.5 96.6 Total 191.0 244.1 Receivables amounting to US$43.8 million 31 March 2014: US$35.5 million, of the Power division of the Group have been impaired primarily as a result of an ongoing dispute in relation to a tariff agreement with a power supply company.
Derivative financial instruments The fair value of all derivatives is separately recorded on the balance sheet within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives, current and non-current.
In addition, the derivative component of certain convertible bonds is shown as part of the overall convertible bond liability Note 28.
Derivatives that are designated as hedges are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other contracts are treated as separate derivative contracts, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts.
Cash flow hedges The Group also enters into forward exchange and commodity price contracts for hedging highly probable forecast transactions and accounts for them as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 180 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments continued The fair value of the Groups open derivative positions at 31 March 2015, recorded within financial instruments derivative is as follows: As at 31 March 2015 As at 31 March 2014 US$ million Liability Asset Liability Asset Current Cash flow hedges Commodity contracts 2.5 0.3 0.7 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.6 5.1 0.1 Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 7.9 32.0 Fair value hedges Commodity contracts 1.7 3.8 0.1 0.6 Forward foreign currency contracts 20.1 1.6 84.1 14.5 Other foreign currency swap 2.2 Non-qualifying hedges Commodity contracts 1.5 0.8 1.1 5.5 Forward foreign currency contracts 11.2 0.0 26.6 0.6 Interest rate swap 8.2 1.4 Other foreign currency swap 0.2 Total 45.7 16.6 118.7 54.0 Non-current Cash flow hedges Commodity contracts 2.0 Fair value hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 0.1 0.2 0.1 Cross currency swap 14.2 Non-qualifying hedges Interest rate swap 27.3 Total 0.1 0.2 27.4 16.2 Grand total 45.8 16.8 146.1 70.2 The majority of cash flow hedges taken out by the Group during the year comprises commodity contracts and foreign currency forward contracts for firm future commitments.
The cash flows related to the majority of cash flow hedges above are expected to occur during the year ended 31 March 2016 and consequently may impact the income statements for that year depending upon the change in the commodity prices and foreign exchange rate movements.
Non-qualifying hedges The majority of these derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts which are economic hedges but which do not fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Fair value hedges The fair value hedges relate to foreign currency forward contracts taken to hedge currency exposure on purchase of raw materials andcapital imports.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 181 29.
Financial instruments continued Hedging reserve reconciliation NonHedging controlling US$ million reserves interests Total At 1 April 2013 22.2 17.4 39.6 Amount recognised directly in equity 30.3 20.9 51.2 Amount transferred to income statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 Exchange difference 2.5 1.3 3.8 At 1 April 2014 50.4 37.2 87.6 Amount recognised directly in equity 17.1 9.5 26.6 Amount transferred to income statement 7.4 4.4 11.8 Changes in non-controlling interests 3.9 3.9 Exchange difference 4.1 2.5 6.6 At 31 March 2015 74.7 44.7 119.4 30.
Provisions Restoration, rehabilitation KCM Copper and Price US$ million environmental Participation Other Total At 1 April 2013 303.6 100.1 27.3 431.0 Released charged to income statement 7.1 8.5 6.2 9.4 Unwinding of discount 17.1 4.7 21.8 Cash paid 3.6 6.9 3.3 13.8 Exchange differences 3.5 0.1 1.3 4.9 At 1 April 2014 306.5 89.3 28.9 424.7 Released charged to income statement 26.9 1.4 0.9 27.4 Unwinding of discount Note 7 31.8 5.0 36.8 Cash paid 7.5 1.0 1.4 9.9 Change in estimates 66.1 66.1 Exchange differences 12.9 1.0 13.9 At 31 March 2015 224.9 91.9 27.4 344.2 Current 2015 37.3 91.6 11.9 140.8 Non-current 2015 187.6 0.3 15.5 203.4 224.9 91.9 27.4 344.2 Current 2014 5.7 70.0 13.0 88.7 Non-current 2014 300.8 19.3 15.9 336.0 306.5 89.3 28.9 424.7 Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental The provisions for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental liabilities represent the Managements best estimate of the costs which will be incurred in the future to meet the Groups obligations under existing Indian, Australian, Zambian, Namibian, South African and Irish law and the terms of the Groups mining and other licences and contractual arrangements.
These amounts, calculated by considering discount rates within the range of 2%9%, become payable on closure of mines and are expected to be incurred over a period of one to 15 years.
Within India, the principal restoration and rehabilitation provisions are recorded within Cairn India where a legal obligation exists relating to the oil & gas fields, where costs are expected to be incurred in restoring the site of production facilities at the end of the producing life of an oil field.
The Group recognises the full cost of site restoration as a liability when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises.
An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production from a producing field.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, based on the decommissioning studies the provision for restoration, rehabilitation and environment has been revised downwards by US$66.1 million, mainly related to the Rajasthan block at Cairn India.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 182 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Provisions continued KCM Copper Price Participation KCM Copper Price Participation relates to a provision in respect of a price participation agreement in Zambia which requires KCM to pay ZCCM an agreed annual sum when copper price exceeds specified levels and specific triggers.
In the previous years the timing of the outflow was dependent on future copper prices as well as dividends paid.
KCM and ZCCM agreed for final settlement of Copper Price Participation liability.
The total amount that to be paid was US$119.7 million to besettled in 16 instalments with the first instalment starting on 31 December 2012 and last instalment on 30 September 2016.
The provision recognised has been discounted at 10.3% to take into account the expected timings of the various payments and recognised as a liability at US$91.9 million as at 31 March 2015.
Other Other includes provision on post retirement medical benefits.
The expected period of utilisation is 18 years.
Deferred tax The Group has accrued significant amounts of deferred tax.
The majority of the deferred tax liability represents accelerated tax relief for the depreciation of capital expenditure and the depreciation on fair value uplifts created on acquisitions, net of losses carried forward by Vedanta Limited post the reorganisation and MAT credits carried forward in Cairn India and Hindustan Zinc.
The amounts of deferred taxation on temporary differences, provided and not provided, in the accounts are as follows: Provided deferred tax liabilities assets As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Accelerated capital allowances 3,478.3 6,185.0 Unutilised tax losses 445.1 901.7 Other temporary differences 1,697.0 1,546.9 1,336.2 3,736.4 Disclosed as: Deferred tax liability 2,588.7 4,960.1 Deferred tax asset 1,252.6 1,223.7 1,336.2 3,736.4 Unrecognised deferred tax assets As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed depreciation 471.6 372.7 The above relates to the tax effect on US$1,088.3 million 2014: US$750.9 million of unutilised tax losses of the Company, VRHL, VRJL and VRJ2 which have no expiry period: US$827.2 million 2014: US$642 million unutilised tax losses of Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited which is subject to the Mauritius tax regime and can be carried forward for a period of five years: US$39.4 million of unutilised tax losses and non-refundable R&D tax credits of CMT, which can be carried forward indefinitely under the Australian tax regime: and US$344.3 million 2014: US$371.1 million of unutilised tax losses and capital allowances for Malco Energy Limited MEL and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited which are subject to the Indian tax regime.
Pursuant to the Indian tax regime, unutilised business tax losses expire eight years from the period in which the losses arise and, unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on these unutilised tax losses and tax credits as there is no evidence that sufficient taxable profit will be available in the future against which they can be utilised by the respective entities.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 183 31.
Deferred tax continued Deferred tax asset As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 At 1 April 1,223.7 847.1 Credited to income statement 45.8 459.3 Charged directly to equity 0.3 3.3 Foreign exchange differences 16.6 79.4 At 31 March 1,252.6 1,223.7 The Group has US$1,285.8 million of unutilised tax losses in Vedanta Limited and MAT credits of US$1,898.1 million carried forward in Hindustan Zinc, Vedanta Limited and Cairn India which are subject to the Indian tax regime.
Under the Indian tax regime, unutilised tax losses expire eight years from the period in which the losses arise and unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward indefinitely.
MAT credits expire 10 years from the period in which the credits arise.
Deferred tax assets in the Group have been recognised to the extent there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity which are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax liability As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 At 1 April 4,960.1 4,996.6 1 Charged credited to income statement 2,377.5 33.7 Charged credited directly to equity 6.5 2.4 Foreign exchange differences 12.6 72.6 At 31 March 2,588.7 4,960.1 1 Including deferred tax credit of US$2,138 million related to impairment of oil & gas assets at Cairn Note 5.
Share-based payments Employee share schemes The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration for Executive Directors.
Three employee share schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
In 2014, the Board introduced a Performance Share Plan PSP which is the primary arrangement under which share-based incentives are provided to the Executive Directors and the wider management group.
The Vedanta Resources Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP and Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP and Performance Share Plan the PSP The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 150% of annual salary.
In respect of MrNavin Agarwal and MrTom Albanese, salary means the aggregate of their salary payable by the Company and their CTC payable by Vedanta Limited.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to members of the wider management group is calculated by reference to the grade average CTC and individual grade of the employee.
The performance conditions attaching to outstanding awards are as follows: PSP measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over the performance period with the performance of the companies as defined in the scheme from the grant date.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against a group of peer companies at the end of the performance period and as moderated by the Remuneration Committee.
Furthermore, a certain percentage of the vesting is based on continued employment with the Group until the end of the third year.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with adjusted straight-line vesting in between the points shown and rounding down to the nearest whole share: http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 184 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued Vedantas TSR performance against comparator group % of award vesting Below median At median 30 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition is measured by taking the Companys TSR over the three months immediately preceding the date of grant and over the three months immediately preceding the end of the performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has out-performed a group of companies chosen to represent the mining sector, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors and the wider management group with those of the shareholders.
Initial awards under the PSP were granted on 17 November 2014.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is three years, with no retesting being allowed.
ESOP measured in terms of business performance set against business plan for the financial year comprising operational deliverables, enabler parameters and sustainability performance specific to each company.
The vesting schedule is graded over three years and varies from company to company with a minimum vesting of 30% triggering at either 80% or 85% business score.
In another tranche, the vesting schedule is staggered over a period of three years from the date of grant, with 70% vesting based on the achievement of business performance and the remaining 30% based on continued employment with the Group until the end of the third year.
Initial awards under ESOP were granted on 24 September 2012 with further awards being made on 16 May 2013.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is one year.
The exercise period is six months from the date of vesting.
LTIP measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over the performance period with the performance of the companies as defined in the scheme from the grant date.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against a group of peer companies Adapted Comparator Group at the end of the performance period and as moderated by the Remuneration Committee.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with adjusted straight-line vesting in between the points shown and rounded down to the nearest whole share.
Vedantas TSR performance against Adapted Comparator Group % of award vesting Below median At median 40 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition is measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group described above.
Initial awards under the LTIP were granted on 26 February 2004.
As on 31 March 2015 the awards outstanding are the awards issued on 1August 2011, 1 October 2011, 1 January 2012 and 1 April 2012.
Further details on the LTIP are available in the Remuneration Report of the annual report.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 185 32.
As at 31 March 2015, 7,236,164 options remained outstanding and 269,282 options were exercisable at the year end.
The weighted average share price for the share options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2015 was GBP8.9 year ended 31 March 2014: GBP8.5.
The weighted average maturity period for the options outstanding as on 31 March 2015 is 33 months 31 March 2014: 17 months.
All share-based awards of the Group are equity-settled as defined by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of these awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using the Stochastic valuation model with suitable modifications to allow for the specific performance conditions of the respective schemes.
The inputs to the model include the share price at date of grant, exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term and the risk free rate of interest.
A progressive dividend growth policy is assumed in all fair value calculations.
Expected volatility has been calculated using historical return indices over the period to date of grant that is commensurate with the performance period of the award.
The return indices of the mining companies in the Adapted Comparator Group have been modelled based on historical movements over the period to date of grant which is also commensurate with the performance period for the option.
The history of return indices is used to determine the volatility and correlation of share prices for the companies in the Adapted Comparator Group and is needed for the Stochastic valuation model of their future TSR performance relative to the Companys TSR performance.
All options are assumed to be exercised immediately after vesting.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 186 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued The assumptions used in the calculations of the charge in respect of the PSP ESOP awards granted during the year ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 are set out below: Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 PSP November 2014 ESOP May 2013 Number of instruments 5,485,000 3,824,050 Exercise price US$0.10 US$0.10 Share price at the date of grant GBP8.09 GBP12.72 Contractual life 3 years 1 year 2 years 3 years Expected volatility 35.5% 36.6% 51.0% 48.0% Expected option life 3 years 1.5 years 2.5 years 3.5 years Expected dividends 4.62% 2.98% Risk free interest rate 0.90% 0.31% Expected annual forfeitures 10% p. a 10% p. a Fair value per option granted GBP6.98 GBP3.00 GBP8.2 GBP7.9 GBP7.6 GBP12.2 GBP11.9 GBP11.6 The Group recognised total expenses of US$28.6 million and US$32.8 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 respectively.
Retirement benefits The Group operates pension schemes for the majority of its employees in India, Australia, Africa and Ireland.
a Defined contribution schemes Indian pension schemes Central Recognised Provident Fund The Central Recognised Provident Fund relates to all full-time Indian employees of the Group.
The amount contributed by the Group is a designated percentage of 12% of basic salary less contributions made as part of the Pension Fund see below, together with an additional contribution of 12% limited to a maximum contribution of 30% in case of Iron Ore Segment of the salary of the employee.
The benefit is paid to the employee on their retirement or resignation from the Group.
Superannuation Superannuation, another pension scheme applicable in India, is applicable only to executives in grade M4 and above.
However, in case of the Cairn India Group and Iron Ore Segment, the benefit is applicable to all executives.
In Cairn India, it is applicable from the second year of employment.
Certain companies hold policies with the Life Insurance Corporation of India LIC, to which they contribute a fixed amount relating to superannuation, and the pension annuity is met by the LIC as required, taking into consideration the contributions made.
Accordingly, this scheme has been accounted for on a defined contribution basis and contributions are charged directly to the income statement.
Pension Fund The Pension Fund was established in 1995 and is managed by the Government of India.
The employee makes no contribution to this fund but the employer makes a contribution of 8.33% of salary each month subject to a specified ceiling per employee.
This must be provided for every permanent employee on the payroll.
At the age of superannuation, contributions cease and the individual receives a monthly payment based on the level of contributions through the years, and on their salary scale at the time they retire, subject to a maximum ceiling of salary level.
The Government funds these payments, thus the Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the central fund is in surplus or deficit.
Australian pension scheme The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes in Australia.
The contribution of a proportion of an employees salary into a superannuation fund is a compulsory legal requirement in Australia.
The employer contributes 9.5% of the employees gross remuneration where the employee is covered by the industrial agreement and 12.5% of the basic remuneration for all other employees, into the employees fund of choice.
All employees have the option to make additional voluntary contributions.
Zambian pension scheme The KCM Pension Scheme is applicable to full-time permanent employees of KCM subject to the fulfilment of certain eligibility criteria.
The management of the scheme is vested in the trustees consisting of representatives of the employer and the members.
The employer makes a monthly contribution to the KCM Pension Scheme and the member makes monthly contributions.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 187 33.
Retirement benefits continued All contributions to the KCM Pension Scheme in respect of a member cease to be payable when the member attains normal retirement age of 55 years, or upon leaving the service of the employer, or when the member is permanently medically incapable of performing duties in the service of the employer.
Upon such cessation of contribution on the grounds of normal retirement, or being rendered medically incapable of performing duties, or early voluntary retirement, the member is entitled to receive his accrued pension.
The member is allowed to commute his her accrued pension subject to certain rules and regulations.
The Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes.
Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund, Namibia The Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund is a defined contribution fund and is compulsory to all full time employees under the age of 60.
Company contribution to the fund is a fixed percentage of 9% per month of pensionable salary, whilst the employee contributes 7% with the option of making additional contributions, over and above the normal contribution, up to a maximum of 12%.
Normal retirement age is 60 years and benefit payable is the members fund credit which is equal to all employer and employee contributions plus interest.
The same applies when an employee resigns from Skorpion Zinc.
The Fund provides disability cover which is equalto the members fund credit and a death cover of two times annual salary in the event of death before retirement.
Black Mountain Mining Pty Limited, South Africa pension and provident funds Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd has two retirement funds, both administered by Alexander Forbes, a registered financial service provider.
Both funds form part of the Alexander Forbes umbrella fund and are defined contribution funds.
Membership of both funds is compulsory for all permanent employees under the age of 60.
Lisheen Mine, Ireland pension funds Lisheen Pension Plan is for all employees.
Lisheen pays 5% and employees pay 5% with the option to make Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs if desired.
Executive contributions are 15% by Lisheen and a minimum of 5% by the employee with the option to make AVCs if desired.
Death benefit is three times salary for employees and four times salary for executives.
Pension and life cover ceases at 65.
On wind up of the pension schemes, the benefits will be paid out to the remaining members in accordance with the scheme rules and Irish Revenue tax regulations.
b Defined benefit schemes India The Gratuity schemes are defined benefit schemes which are open to all Group employees in India who have a minimum of five years of service with their employing company.
These schemes are funded in some subsidiaries.
Based on actuarial valuation, a provision is recognised in full for the projected obligation over and above the funds held in scheme.
In case where there is no funding held by the scheme, full provision is recognised in the balance sheet.
Under these schemes, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate funds and a full actuarial valuation of the schemes is carried out on an annual basis.
Vedanta Limited The Iron Ore, Aluminium and Copper divisions of Vedanta Limited contributed to the LIC Fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
Vedanta Limiteds Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2015 using the projected unit credit actuarial method.
At that date the fund was in deficit.
BALCO All employees who are scheduled to retire on or before 31 March 2015 are being paid by BALCO.
The Gratuity scheme is accounted for as a defined benefit scheme for all employees scheduled to retire after 31 March 2015.
A provision is recognised based on the latest actuarial valuation which was performed as at 31 March 2015 using the projected unit actuarial method.
HZL HZL contributes to the LIC fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
HZLs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2015 using the projected unit actuarial method.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 188 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefits continued MEL MEL contributed to the LIC fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
The MEL Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
At that date the fund was in surplus.
TSPL TSPL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity scheme are fully provided in the balance sheet and are determined by actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date and as per gratuity regulations for TSPL.
Cairn Cairn contributes to the LIC fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
Cairn India Groups Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
Zambia Specified permanent employees of KCM are entitled to receive medical and retirement severance benefits.
This comprises two months basic pay for every completed year of service with an earliest service start date of 1 July 2004.
Under this scheme, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay and a full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out on an annual basis.
The accruals are not contributed to any fund and are in the form of provisions in KCMs accounts.
On the death of an employee during service, a lump sum amount is paid to his or her dependants.
This amount is equal to 60 months basic pay for employees who joined before 1 April 2000 and 30 months basic pay for employees who joined on or after 1 April 2000.
For fixed term contract employees, the benefit payable on death is 30 months basic pay.
As at 31 March 2015, membership of pension schemes across Vedanta Limited, BALCO, HZL, MEL, TSPL, KCM and Cairn stood at 24,456 employees 31 March 2014: 25,286.
The deficits, principal actuarial assumptions and other aspects of these schemes are disclosed in further detail in notes d and e below.
c Pension scheme costs Contributions of US$74.6 million and US$nil in respect of defined benefit schemes were outstanding and prepaid respectively as at 31 March 2015 2014: US$62.9 million and US$nil respectively.
Contributions to all pension schemes in the year ending 31 March 2016 are expected to be around US$5.6 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Defined contribution pension schemes 30.7 25.7 Defined benefit pension schemes 19.7 16.7 Total expense 50.4 42.4 d Principal actuarial assumptions.
In India, the mortality tables used, assume that a person aged 60 at the end of the balance sheet date has a future life expectancy of 19years.
Assumptions regarding mortality for Indian entities are based on mortality table of Indian Assured Lives Mortality 2006-2008 published by the Institute of Actuaries of India.
Assumptions regarding mortality for KCM are based on World Health Organisation Life Tables for 1999 applicable to Zambia which has been taken as a reference point.
Based on this a mortality table which is appropriate for the workers of Konkola Copper Mines plc has been derived.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 189 33.
Retirement benefits continued e Balance sheet recognition 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Iron Iron MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore 1 1 1 1 1 1 US$ million TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.3 2.5 26.8 1.5 9.0 4.9 45.0 0.2 3.2 27.9 1.4 8.2 4.9 45.8 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 0.3 20.8 3.5 35.8 39.8 2.4 9.3 7.7 119.6 0.2 21.2 3.4 29.4 35.5 1.7 9.8 7.5 108.7 Deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 20.8 1.0 9.0 39.8 0.9 0.3 2.8 74.6 21.2 0.2 1.5 35.5 0.3 1.6 2.6 62.9 Deferred tax 7.1 0.3 3.1 13.5 0.3 0.1 1.0 25.4 7.2 0.1 0.5 10.6 0.1 0.6 0.9 20.0 Net pension liability 13.7 0.7 5.9 26.3 0.6 0.2 1.8 49.2 14.0 0.1 1.0 24.9 0.2 1.0 1.7 42.9 f Amounts recognised in income statement in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Iron Iron MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore 1 1 1 1 1 1 US$ million TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Current service cost 0.1 0.5 0.2 2.0 6.2 0.3 0.6 0.6 10.5 0.7 0.3 1.3 5.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 9.9 Net Interest cost 0.0 1.6 0.2 0.5 6.4 0.0 0.2 0.3 9.2 1.5 0.1 0.3 4.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 6.8 Total charge to income statement 0.1 2.1 0.4 2.5 12.6 0.3 0.8 0.9 19.7 2.2 0.4 1.6 10.1 0.3 0.7 1.4 16.7 g Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Iron Iron MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore 1 1 1 1 1 1 TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit obligation 0.1 3.7 0.5 6.2 2.8 0.6 0.4 0.1 14.2 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.5 2.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 5.0 Actuarial gains losses on plan asset 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.8 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability asset 3.7 0.5 6.2 2.8 0.6 0.3 0.1 14.0 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.1 2.4 0.4 1.2 4.2 1 Jharsuguda Aluminium earlier VAL, Iron ore Sesa earlier Sesa Goa and Sterlite Copper earlier Sterlite became divisions of Vedanta Limited post merger refer Note 45. http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 190 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefits continued h Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations The movement during the year ended 31 March 2015 of the present value of the defined benefit obligation was as follows: 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Iron Iron MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore MEL & Sterlite Jharsuguda Ore 1 1 1 1 1 1 US$ million TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total TSPL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total At 1 April 0.1 21.2 3.5 29.4 35.5 1.7 9.8 7.5 108.7 0.2 23.2 4.0 35.3 32.4 1.4 9.6 6.8 112.9 Current service cost 0.1 0.5 0.2 2.0 6.2 0.3 0.6 0.6 10.5 0.7 0.3 1.3 5.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 9.9 Gratuity benefits paid 5.7 0.9 4.4 4.3 0.2 1.0 0.6 17.1 3.1 0.1 6.2 9.5 0.3 1.5 0.3 21.0 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 0.1 1.6 0.3 2.6 6.6 0.1 0.9 0.3 12.5 1.5 0.3 2.5 4.6 0.1 0.8 0.5 10.3 Remeasurement gains losses 0.1 3.7 0.5 6.2 2.8 0.6 0.5 0.0 14.2 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.5 2.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 5.0 Exchange difference 0.5 0.2 7.0 0.1 1.3 0.1 9.2 2.1 0.4 4.0 0.1 1.0 0.8 8.4 At 31 March 0.2 20.8 3.4 35.8 39.8 2.4 9.5 7.7 119.6 0.1 21.2 3.5 29.4 35.5 1.7 9.8 7.5 108.7 1 Jharsuguda Aluminium earlier VAL, Iron Ore Sesa earlier Sesa Goa and Sterlite Copper earlier Sterlite became divisions of Vedanta Limited post merger refer Note 45. i Movements in the fair value of plan assets As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 At 1 April 45.8 46.2 Contributions received 4.0 18.5 Benefits paid 6.6 18.0 Remeasurements 0.2 0.8 Interest income 3.3 3.5 Foreign exchange differences 1.7 5.2 At 31 March 45.0 45.8 j Five year history Defined benefit pension plan As at As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience losses arising on scheme liabilities 14.2 5.0 6.9 7.0 20.4 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets 0.2 0.8 0.6 Fair value of pension scheme assets 45.0 45.8 46.2 47.8 39.3 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 119.6 108.7 112.9 106.9 96.1 Deficits in the schemes 74.6 62.9 66.7 59.1 56.8 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 191 33.
Retirement benefits continued k Sensitivity analysis Below is the sensitivity analysis determined for significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of defined benefit obligations and based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period while holding all other assumptions constant.
Increase decrease in defined benefit US$ million obligation Discount rate Increase by 0.50% 2.6 Decrease by 0.50% 2.7 Salary increase Increase by 0.50% 2.3 Decrease by 0.50% 2.2 The above sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
l Risk analysis Group is exposed to a number of risks in the defined benefit plans.
Most significant risks pertaining to defined benefits plans and management estimation of the impact of these risks are as follows: Investment risk Most of the Indian defined benefit plans are funded with Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The Group does not have any liberty to manage the funds provided to Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to the Government of India bonds for Groups Indian operations.
If the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Interest risk A decrease in the interest rate on plan assets will increase the plan liability.
Longevity risk life expectancy The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and at the end of the employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan liability.
Salary growth risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
An increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan liability.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard continuity, maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and provide adequate return to shareholders through continuing growth.
The Group sets the amount of capital required on the basis of annual business and long-term operating plans which include capital and other strategic investments.
The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, internal accruals, convertible bonds and other long-term and short-term borrowings.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt as a percentage of total capital.
As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Total equity 12,257.4 17,974.8 Net debt 8,458.0 7,919.5 Total capital 20,715.4 25,894.3 Gearing 40.8% 30.6% The increase in the gearing ratio compared to 2014 ratio is primarily due to decrease in total equity pursuant to one-time impairment charge on oil & gas assets of US$4,504.1 net of deferred tax of US$2,138 million Note 5. http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 192 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Share capital At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Authorised Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 400,000,000 40.0 400,000,000 40.0 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 400,050,000 40.0 400,050,000 40.0 At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2014 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 299,868,180 30.0 298,182,135 29.8 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 299,918,180 30.0 298,232,135 29.8 During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Company issued 1,686,045 shares at face value of 10 US cents per share to the employees pursuant to the Vedanta LTIP and ESOP schemes 2014: 550,275 shares.
The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the payment of the amounts paid on such shares after repayment to the holders of ordinary shares of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
Of the 50,000 deferred shares, one deferred share was issued at par and has been fully paid, and 49,999 deferred shares were each paid up as to one-quarter of their nominal value.
As on 31 March 2015, 6,904,995 ordinary shares which were issued on the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one of the Groups subsidiaries are held through a Global Depositary Receipts and carry no voting rights.
Non-controlling interests NCI The Group consists of a parent Company, Vedanta Resources plc, incorporated in the UK and a number of subsidiaries held directly and indirectlyby the Group which operate and are incorporated around the world.
Note 44 to the financial statements lists details of the interests in the subsidiaries.
Non-controlling interests that are material to the Group relate to Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL, Cairn India Limited Cairn and VedantaLimited.
As at 31 March 2015, NCIs hold an economic interest of 59.20%, 62.36% and 37.15% respectively in HZL, Cairn and Vedanta Limited.
The respective NCI holdings in 2014 were 62.15%, 65.74% and 41.70% respectively.
The changes in NCI during the current year were pursuant to the additional investment in shares of Vedanta Limited and buyback of ordinary shares by Cairn India details of which are set out in Note 41.
Principal place of business of HZL, Cairn and Vedanta Limited is in India refer to Note 44.
The table below shows details of non-wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group that have material non-controlling interests: Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 US$ million Vedanta Vedanta 1 2 1 Particulars HZL Cairn Limited Others Total HZL Cairn Limited Others Total Profit loss attributable toNCI 813.8 2,608.9 74.7 268.7 1,989.1 713.1 553.4 117.1 198.2 1,185.4 Equity attributable to NCI 4,310.9 6,903.6 2,199.9 2,760.1 10,654.3 3,997.5 10,520.1 777.2 1,330.4 13,964.4 Dividends paid 3 toNCI 107.8 165.4 67.2 340.4 88.9 190.4 59.3 7.3 345.9 1 Others consist of investment subsidiaries of Vedanta Limited and other individual non-material subsidiaries.
2 Including the impact of merger during the year ended 31 March 2014.
3 Including dividends paid by SIIL during year ended 31 March 2014, before merger.
4 For principal activities, country of incorporation and immediate holding company of the above subsidiaries refer to Note 44.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 193 36.
Non-controlling interests NCI continued Summarised financial information in respect of Groups subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is set out below.
Thesummarised financial information below is on a 100% basis and before inter-company eliminations: As at 31 March 2015 As at 31 March 2014 US$ million Vedanta Vedanta 2 2 Particulars HZL Cairn Limited HZL Cairn Limited Non-current assets 2,193.2 10,407.1 11,502.0 2,011.7 16,208.4 9,844.0 Current assets 5,305.9 3,794.8 1,614.8 4,666.5 4,908.3 2,236.8 Current liabilities 267.9 957.4 3,576.3 235.7 718.5 5,952.1 Non-current liabilities 22.1 2,148.3 3,732.2 10.6 4,395.6 4,264.8 Net assets 7,209.1 11,096.2 5,808.3 6,431.9 16,002.6 1,863.9 Year ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014 Vedanta Vedanta 2 2 Particulars HZL Cairn Limited HZL Cairn Limited Revenue 2,385.8 2,397.5 5,290.4 2,224.8 3,092.8 4,682.7 Profit loss for the year 1,360.8 4,193.4 199.1 1,146.3 905.8 402.8 Other comprehensive income loss 5.7 37.2 3.5 4.9 The effect of changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in a loss of control is as follows: Year ended 31 March 2015 Vedanta US$ million HZL Cairn Limited Others Total Changes in NCI due to buyback and investment 197.2 531.5 83.3 167.9 644.1 Year ended 31 March 2014 Vedanta 2 HZL Cairn Limited Others Total 5 Changes in NCI due to reorganisation scheme 9.7 2,372.5 342.7 2,646.9 626.8 5 Including changes in merged entities refer to Note 45.
Joint arrangements Joint operations The Groups principal licence interests in the Oil & Gas business are joint operations.
The principal licence interests are as follows: Working interest % India Block PKGM-1 Ravva 22.50 Block KG-ONN-2003 1 49.00 Block CB-OS 2-Exploration 60.00 Block CB OS-2 Development and production areas 40.00 Block RJ-ON-90 1 Development and production areas 70.00 Block RJ-ON-90 1-Exploration 100.00 Block PR-OSN-2004 1 35.00 Block KG-OSN-2009 3 100.00 Block MB-DWN-2009 1 100.00 South Africa South Africa Block 1 60.00 Sri Lanka SL-2007-01-001 100.00 http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 194 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies Commitments The Group has a number of continuing operational and financial commitments in the normal course of business including: exploratory mining commitments: oil & gas commitments: mining commitments arising under production sharing agreements: and completion of the construction of certain assets.
As at As at 31March 31March US$ million 2015 2014 Capital commitments contracted but not provided 1,973.7 2,702.7 Commitments primarily related to the expansion projects: As at As at 31March 31March 2015 2014 HZL 274.4 446.7 KCM 6.6 Jharsuguda Aluminium 508.6 621.0 Jharsuguda 2,400MW power plant 33.7 31.5 BALCO 69.5 73.2 Talwandi Sabo 96.1 141.9 Sterlite Copper 220.8 236.6 Cairn 700.2 1,052.3 Total 1,903.3 2,609.8 Guarantees Companies within the Group provide guarantees within the normal course of business.
Guarantees have also been provided in respect of certain short-term and long-term borrowings.
A summary of the most significant guarantees is set out below: As at 31 March 2015, US$365.4 million of guarantees were advanced to banks, suppliers etc.
in the normal course of business 2014: US$234.9 million.
The Group has also entered into guarantees and bonds advanced to the customs authorities in India of US$228.9 million relating to the export and payment of import duties on purchases of raw material and capital goods including export obligations 2014: US$727.2 million.
Cairn PSC guarantee to Government The Group has provided a parent Company guarantee for the Cairn India Groups obligation under the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Cairn India have provided various other guarantees under the Cairn India Groups bank facilities for the Cairn India Groups share of minimum work programme commitments of US$15.6 million outstanding as of 31 March 2015 2014: US$18.9 million.
Export obligations The Indian entities of the Group have export obligations of US$2,688.0 million 2014: US$3,789.9 million on account of concessional rates of import duty paid on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and under the Advance Licence Scheme for import of raw material laid down by the Government of India.
In the event of the Groups inability to meet its obligations, the Groups liability would be US$429.1 million 2014: US$478.4 million, reduced in proportion to actual exports, plus applicable interest.
Contingencies MEL claims with Tamil Nadu Electricity Board TNEB TNEB is claiming US$16.3 million from MEL for an electricity self-generation levy for the period from May 1999 to June 2003.
This claim has arisen since the commissioning of MELs captive power plant in 1999.
The Company has sought an exemption from the application of this levy from the Government of Tamil Nadu.
The application is under consideration.
Meanwhile, the Madras High Court has in its recent order, remitted back the case to the State of Tamil Nadu, to take a decision afresh on the representation for grant of tax exemption on consumption of electricity and directed to pass a detailed speaking order.
MEL has accordingly represented before the Government of Tamil Nadu Energy Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu avide of his letter dated 20 March 2013 denied the exemption citing various reasons and asked MEL to remit US$15.7 million.
MEL moved to the High Court of Madras and a stay was granted on the same.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 195 38.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies continued HZL: Department of Mines and Geology The Department of Mines and Geology of the State of Rajasthan issued several show cause notices in August, September and October 2006 to HZL, totalling US$53.3 million.
These notices alleged unlawful occupation and unauthorised mining of associated minerals other than zinc and lead at HZLs Rampura Agucha, Rajpura Dariba and Zawar mines in Rajasthan during the period from July 1968 to March 2006.
HZL believes that the claim becoming an obligation of the Company is unlikely and thus no provision has been made in the financial statements.
HZL has filed writ petitions in the High Court of Rajasthan in Jodhpur and has obtained a stay in respect of these demands.
Richter and Westglobe: income tax The Group through its subsidiaries Richter Holdings Limited Richter and Westglobe Limited Westglobe in 2007 acquired the entire stake in Finsider International Company Limited based in the United Kingdom.
Finsider at that point in time held 51% stake in Vedanta Limited formerly Sesa Sterlite Limited.
In October 2013, the Indian Tax Authorities Tax Authorities have served an order on Richter and Westglobe for alleged failure to deduct withholding tax on capital gain on the indirect acquisition of shares in April 2007.
The Tax Authorities held that Richter and Westglobe were assessed in default for non-deduction of tax while making payment for acquiring the shares in 2007.
The Tax Authorities determined the liability for such non-deduction of tax as US$140.0 million in the case of Richter and US$93.2 million in the case of Westglobe, comprising tax and interest.
Being aggrieved, Richter and Westglobe filed appeals before the first appellate authority.
Writ petitions were filed in the High Court of Karnataka challenging the constitutional validity of retrospective amendments made by the Finance Act 2012 and in particular the imposition of obligations to deduct tax on payments made against an already concluded transaction.
These Writs are pending for disposal.
In the interim, the Tax Authorities disposed of the petition filed for stay for demand arising out of impugned orders.
Consequent to an order received from the Tax Authorities in March 2015, any amounts payable from Vedanta Limited to Westglobe, including dividends as and when declared, must instead be paid to the Tax Authorities up to the amount of tax assessment.
Richter and Westglobe sought intervention by the High Court by filing an application.
The aforementioned Writ as well as connected application are due to be heard during June 2015.
Richter and Westglobe believe that they are not liable for such withholding tax and intend to defend the proceedings.
Cairn India: income tax In March 2014, Cairn India received a show cause notice from the Indian Tax Authorities Tax Authorities for not deducting withholding tax on the payments made to Cairn UK Holdings Limited CUHL UK, for acquiring shares of Cairn India Holdings Limited CIHL, as part of their internal reorganisation.
Tax Authorities have stated in the said notice that a short-term capital gain has accrued to CUHL on transfer of the shares of CIHL to Cairn India, in financial year 20062007, on which tax should have been withheld by the Company.
Pursuant to this various replies were filed with the Tax Authorities.
After hearings, the Income Tax Authority, during March 2015, have issued an order by holding Cairn India as assessee in default and asked to pay such demand totalling US$3,274.4 million US$1,637.1 million being the tax element and US$1,637.1 million on account of interest.
The Company has filed a Notice of Claim by invoking the Bilateral Investment Promotion Treaty between the UK and India.
Cairn India has filed its appeal before the CIT A and filed a fresh Writ petition before Delhi High Court wherein it raised several points for assailing the aforementioned order.
The hearing of the said Writ is due on 18 May 2015.
Vedanta Limited: contractor claim Shenzhen Shandong Nuclear Power Construction Co. Limited SSNP subsequent to terminating the EPC contract invoked arbitration as per the contract alleging non-payment of their dues towards construction of a 210MW co-generation power plant for 6MTPA expansion project, and filed a claim of US$248.1 million.
SSNP also filed a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 before the Bombay High Court praying for interim relief.
The Bombay High Court initially dismissed their petition, but on a further appeal by SSNP, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court directed Jharsuguda Aluminium to deposit a bank guarantee for an amount of US$27.8 million as a security, being a prima facie representation of the claim, until arbitration proceedings are completed.
Jharsuguda Aluminium has deposited a bank guarantee of an equivalent amount.
Management is of the opinion that this claim is not valid under the terms of the contract with SSNP and it is unlikely that SSNP can legally sustain the claim and accordingly, no provision is considered necessary.
Miscellaneous disputes Vedanta Limited, HZL, MEL, BALCO, Cairn, Lisheen, VRJL and VRJL-II The Group is subject to various claims and exposures which arise in the ordinary course of conducting and financing its business from the income tax, excise, indirect tax authorities and others.
These claims and exposures mostly relate to the assessable values of sales and purchases or to incomplete documentation supporting the companies returns or other claims.
The approximate value of claims against the Group companies total US$1,370.7 million 2014: US$1,150.1 million, of which US$29.3 million 2014: US$30.2 million is included as a provision in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2015 including claims of US$583.1 million in respect of income tax assessments out of which US$2.3 million is included as a provision in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2015.
The Group considers that it can take steps such that the risks can be mitigated and that there are no significant unprovided liabilities arising.
Operating lease commitments: as lessee Operating leases are in relation to the office premises, office equipment and other assets, some of which are cancellable and some are non-cancellable.
There is an escalation clause in the lease agreements during the primary lease period.
There are no restrictions imposed by lease arrangements and there are no sub leases.
There are no contingent rents.
The total of the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are as follows: http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 196 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies continued As at As at US$ million 31March 31March Particulars 2015 2014 Within one year of the balance sheet date 4.9 5.1 Within two to five years from the balance sheet date 5.6 16.9 Total 10.5 22.0 Lease payments recognised as expenses during the year ended 31 March 2015, on non-cancellable leases, is US$3.9 million 31 March 2014: US$0.6 million.
Related party transactions The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and various related parties in the normal course of business for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Sterlite Technologies Limited STL Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Sales to STL 126.0 102.3 Reimbursement of expenses 0.0 0.3 Purchases 2.9 0.0 Net interest received 0.6 0.2 Net amounts receivable at year end 3.7 5.4 Sterlite Technologies Limited is related by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Pursuant to the terms of the Shared Services Agreement dated 5 December 2003 entered into by the Company and STL, the Company provides various commercial services in relation to STLs businesses on an arms length basis and at normal commercial terms.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the commercial services provided to STL were performed by certain senior employees of the Group on terms set out in the Shared Services Agreement.
The services provided to STL in this year amounted to US$0.02 million 2014: US$0.03 million.
Vedanta Foundation During the year US$0.7 million was paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2014: US$0.7 million.
The Vedanta Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in computer education and other related social and charitable activities.
The major activity of the Vedanta Foundation is providing computer education for disadvantaged students.
The Vedanta Foundation is a related party as it is controlled by members of the Agarwal family who control Volcan.
Volcan is also the majority shareholder of Vedanta Resources plc.
Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited Following the acquisition of erstwhile Sesa Goa Limited, the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited, a charitable institution, became a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group have significant influence on the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, US$0.4 million 2014: US$0.8 million was paid to the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Loan balance receivable 0.5 2.7 Receivable at year end 0.4 0.4 Net interest received 0.2 0.4 Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited is a related party by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Vedanta Medical Research Foundation Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Donation 0.7 0.9 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 197 39.
Related party transactions continued Vedanta Medical Research Foundation is a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group exercise significant influence.
Volcan Investments Limited Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Net amount receivable at the year end 0.4 0.2 Recovery of expenses 0.3 Dividend paid 115.6 102.1 Volcan Investments Limited is a related party of the Group by virtue of being an ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Public and Political Awareness Trust Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Donation 0.02 The Public and Political Awareness Trust is a related party by virtue of being controlled by members of the Agarwal family.
Ashurst LLP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Services received during the year 0.4 0.3 Ashurst LLP is a related party of the Group on the basis that an Independent Director of the Group was a partner in the legal firm Ashurst LLP during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Director whether executive or otherwise.
Remuneration of key management personnel Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Short-term employee benefits 15.9 13.6 Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.9 Share-based payments 2.5 3.1 Termination Benefits 0.3 19.2 17.9 2 Other related party Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Salary paid 1.0 0.4 1 Interest bearing salary advance 1.5 1 Since repaid.
2 Close relative of the Executive Chairman.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 198 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40.
Share transactions a Call option HZL In pursuance to the Government of Indias policy of disinvestment and the Share Purchase Agreement and a Shareholders Agreement SHA both dated 4 April 2002 entered into with the Government of India, the Company acquired 26% equity interest in HZL.
Under the terms of the SHA, the Group had two call options to purchase all of the Government of Indias shares in HZL at fair market value.
The Group exercised the first call option on 29 August 2003 and acquired an additional 18.9% of HZLs issued share capital.
The Company also acquired an additional 20% of the equity capital in HZL through an open offer, increasing its shareholding to 64.9%.
The second call option provides the Group the right to acquire the Government of Indias remaining 29.5% share in HZL.
This call option is subject to the right of the Government of India to sell 3.5% of HZL shares to HZL employees.
The Group exercised the second call option via its letter dated 21 July 2009.
The Government of India disputed the validity of call option and has refused to act upon the second call option.
Consequently the Company invoked arbitration and filed a statement of claim.
The arbitration proceedings are under progress in early stages.
The next date of hearing is fixed for 8 August 2015. b Call option BALCO The Group purchased a 51.0% holding in BALCO from the Government of India on 2 March 2001.
Under the terms of the shareholders agreement SHA for BALCO, the Group has a call option that allows it to purchase the Government of Indias remaining ownership interest in BALCO at any point from 2 March 2004.
The Group exercised this option on 19 March 2004.
However, the Government of India has contested the valuation and validity of the option and contended that the clauses of the SHA violate the provision of Section 111A of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 by restricting the rights of the Government of India to transfer its shares and that as a result such provisions of the SHA were null and void.
Subsequently the Group referred the matter to arbitration as provided in the SHA and the majority award of the arbitral tribunal rejected the claims of the Group on the grounds that the clauses relating to the call option, the right of first refusal, the tag-along rights and the restriction on the transfer of shares violate the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and are not enforceable.
The Group challenged the validity of the majority award under section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in the High Court of Delhi and sought for setting aside the arbitration award to the extent that it holds these clauses ineffective and inoperative.
The Government of India also filed an application before the High Court of Delhi to partially set aside the arbitral award in respect of certain matters involving valuation.
The High Court of Delhi passed an order dated 10 August 2011 directing our application and the application by the Government of India to be heard together as they arise from a common arbitral award.
The matter is currently pending before the High Court of Delhi and scheduled for final hearing on 3 August 2015.
On 9 January 2012, the Group offered to acquire the Government of Indias interests in HZL and BALCO for US$2,577.7 million and US$296.5 million, respectively.
The Group has, by way of letters dated 10 April 2012 and 6 July 2012, sought to engage with the Government of India on the same terms as the offer.
This offer was separate from the contested exercise of the call options, and the Group proposed to withdraw the ongoing litigations in relation to the contested exercise of the options should the offer be accepted.
To date, the offer has not been accepted by the Government of India and therefore there is no certainty that the acquisition will proceed.
The Group continues to include the shareholding in the two companies HZL and BALCO, in respect of which the Group has a call option as non-controlling interest.
Share purchases During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group increased its holding in one of its subsidiaries Vedanta Limited through open market purchases.
The Group purchased 135,373,715 shares of Vedanta Limited for US$629.4 million accounting for 4.55% of its equity share capital.
Also during the year ended 31 March 2015, Cairn India bought back and cancelled its 33,433,290 shares through open market purchases for US$189.7 million accounting for 1.75% of its equity share capital.
The total outflow of US$819.1 on account of investment and share buy-back have been reflected as a reduction to total equity in the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Konkola Copper Mines: value added tax An assessment of output tax amounting to US$600 million has been raised by the Zambia Revenue Authority ZRA covering the years 2011, 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
The basis of assessment is that KCM has not provided all the documentary evidence that is required under Rule 18 of the Value Added Tax Rules to prove an export and as a consequence, all sales of product that were zero rated in the returns have been standard rated by assessment.
KCM has filed for judicial review of the ZRAs decision to standard rate the export products.
After legally analysing the interpretation of Rule 18, management believes that KCM has got a reasonably strong arguable defense in the case.
Additionally KCM has US$169 million receivable on account of value added tax on Inputs that are yet to be recovered from the Zambian Government.
KCM has submitted the complete documentation and got it reviewed by ZRA as per the previous Rule 18 for the period between August 2013 and December 2013.
There are precedents where other companies have received refunds of such amounts from the Government on submission of documents.
KCM is in the process of submitting the required documentation for the remaining months.
Further, effective February 2015, Rule 18 has been amended by allowing exporters to submit transit documents issued by the customs authority in the country of transit of the goods instead of import certificates from the country of destination, as proof of export for purposes of VAT zero rating.
This will make it easier to collect the refunds.
The Group believes that it will receive a refund of the entire amount and there is no objective evidence of uncertainty around collectability.
Subsequent events There are no subsequent events that were identified which may have a bearing on the understanding of the financial statements.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 199 44.
List of subsidiaries The financial statements comprise the financial statements of the following subsidiaries: The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Country of Immediate holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 incorporation company 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Direct subsidiaries of the parent Company Vedanta Resources Holding Limited VRHL Holding company 100.00% 100.00% United VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Kingdom Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% VRJL-II Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Jersey Investments Limited VJIL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Indirect subsidiaries of the parent Company Vedanta Limited formerly Sesa Sterlite Copper smelting, 62.85% 58.29% India Twin Star 46.53% 46.20% Limited iron ore mining, aluminium mining, refining and smelting, power generation Bharat Aluminium Company Limited Aluminium mining 32.05% 29.73% India Vedanta Limited 51.00% 51.00% BALCO and smelting Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited CMT Copper mining 62.85% 58.29% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Fujairah Gold FZE Gold and silver 62.85% 58.29% UAE CMT 98.00% 98.00% processing Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL Zinc and mining and 40.80% 37.85% India Vedanta Limited 64.92% 64.92% smelting Monte Cello BV MCBV Holding company 62.85% 58.29% Netherlands Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Monte Cello Corporation NV MCNV Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Netherlands Twin Star 100.00% 100.00% Konkola Copper Mines PLC KCM Copper mining and 79.42% 79.42% Zambia VRHL 79.42% 79.42% smelting Sesa Resources Limited SRL Iron ore 62.85% 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Sesa Mining Corporation Limited Iron ore 62.85% 58.29% India SRL 100.00% 100.00% 2 Sterlite Infra Limited SIL Non-trading 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% Thalanga Copper Mines Pty Limited TCM Copper mining 62.85% 58.29% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Holdings Limited Twin Star Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% MALCO Energy Limited MEL Power generation 62.85% 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Richter Holding Limited Richter Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Westglobe Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Richter 100.00% 100.00% Finsider International Company Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% United Richter 60.00% 60.00% Kingdom Vedanta Resources Finance Limited VRFL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% United VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Kingdom Vedanta Resources Cyprus Limited VRCL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRFL 100.00% 100.00% Welter Trading Limited Welter Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Lakomasko B. V. Financing company 62.85% 58.29% Netherlands THL Zinc Holding 100.00% 100.00% B. V. 4 THL Zinc Ventures Limited Financing company 62.85% 58.29% Mauritius Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Energy Holdings Limited TEHL Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius BFM 100.00% 100.00% THL Zinc Limited Financing company 62.85% 58.29% Mauritius THL Zinc Ventures 100.00% 100.00% Ltd Sterlite USA Inc. Financing company 62.85% 58.29% USA Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 200 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Country of Immediate holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 incorporation company 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Talwandi Sabo Power Limited Energy generation 62.85% 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Konkola Resources plc Holding company 100.00% 100.00% United VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Kingdom Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited TMHL Holding company 62.85% 58.29% Mauritius TEHL 100.00% 100.00% THL Zinc Namibia Holdings Pty Limited Mining and 62.85% 58.29% Namibia THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% VNHL exploration Skorpion Zinc Pty Limited SZPL Acquisition of 62.85% 58.29% Namibia VNHL 100.00% 100.00% immovable and movable properties Namzinc Pty Limited SZ Mining 62.85% 58.29% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% Skorpion Mining Company Pty Limited NZ Mining 62.85% 58.29% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% Amica Guesthouse Pty Ltd Accommodation and 62.85% 58.29% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% catering services Rosh Pinah Healthcare Pty Ltd Leasing out of 43.37% 40.22% Namibia SZPL 69.00% 69.00% medical equipment and building and conducting services related thereto Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd Mining 43.13% 43.13% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 74.00% 74.00% 4 THL Zinc Holding BV Financing company 62.85% 58.29% Netherlands Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Lisheen Mine Partnership Mining partnership 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLML 50.00% 50.00% firm Pecvest 17 Proprietary Ltd. Investment 62.85% 58.29% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% company Vedanta Lisheen Holdings Limited VLHL Investment 62.85% 58.29% Ireland THL Zinc Holding 100.00% 100.00% company BV Vedanta Exploration Ireland Limited Exploration company 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Lisheen Mining Limited VLML Mining 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% KilloranLisheen Mining Limited Mining 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Finance Limited Investment 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% company Lisheen Milling Limited Manufacturing 62.85% 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Vizag General Cargo Berth Private Limited Infrastructure 62.85% 43.63% India Vedanta Limited 99.99% 74.00% Paradip Multi Cargo Berth Private Limited Infrastructure 46.51% 43.13% India Vedanta Limited 74.00% 74.00% Sterlite Ports Limited SPL Investment 62.85% 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% company Maritime Ventures Private Limited Infrastructure 62.85% 58.29% India SPL 100.00% 100.00% Sterlite Infraventures Limited Investment 62.85% 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% Company Bloom Fountain Limited BFM Investment 62.85% 58.29% Mauritius Vedanta Limited 100.00% 100.00% company Western Cluster Limited Mining company 62.85% 58.29% Liberia BFM 100.00% 100.00% 3 Goa Energy Limited Energy generation 58.29% India Vedanta Limited 100.00% Sesa Sterlite Mauritius Holdings Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Finance UK Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% United Welter 100.00% 100.00% Kingdom Valliant Jersey Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VRJLII 100.00% 100.00% Cairn India Limited Oil & gas Exploration, 37.64% 34.30% India TMHL 39.41% 38.73% and production Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 201 The Companys economic percentage holding Immediate percentage holding Country of Immediate holding Subsidiaries Principal activities 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 incorporation company 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Cairn India Holdings Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Jersey Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% company Limited Cairn Energy Holdings Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% company Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Ltd Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
7 Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
6 Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
2 Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Gujarat Block 1 Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Discovery Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited 1 Cairn Energy Cambay B. V. Exploration and 34.30% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% production Netherlands Holding B. V. 1 Cairn Energy India West B. V. Exploration and 34.30% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% production Netherlands Holding B. V. 1 Cairn Energy Gujarat B. V. Exploration and 34.30% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% production Netherlands Holding B. V 1 Cairn Energy Netherlands Holdings B. V. Holding company 34.30% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Australia Pty Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Australia Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% company Holdings Limited Cairn Energy India Pty Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production Australia Pty Limited 1 CEH Australia Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% company Australia Pty Limited CIG Mauritius Holdings Private Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Mauritius Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% company Limited CIG Mauritius Private Limited Investment 37.64% 34.30% Mauritius CIG Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% company Holding Private Limited Cairn Lanka Private Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% Sri Lanka CIG Mauritius Pvt 100.00% 100.00% production Ltd Cairn South Africa Pty Limited Exploration and 37.64% 34.30% South Africa Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production Hydrocarbons Limited 1 Dissolved during the year ended 31 March 2015.
2 Sterlite Infra Limited merged with Vedanta Limited during the year ended 31 March 2015.
3 GEL merged with Vedanta Limited during the year ended 31 March 2015.
4 Post merger of Sterlite Infra Limited with Vedanta Limited, Vedanta Limited became immediate parent as of 31 March 2015 31 March 2014: Sterlite Infra Limited.
The Group owns directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of all of its subsidiaries as mentioned in the list above, and has power over the subsidiaries, is exposed or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiaries and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiaries.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 202 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 45.
Group restructuring During the year ended 31 March 2014, pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation the Scheme sanctioned by the Indian and Mauritius Courts, the Groups subsidiary companies viz.
Sterlite Energy Limited, Sterlite Industries India Limited SIIL, Aluminium Business of Vedanta Aluminium Limited, Ekaterina Limited and the Residual business of Madras Aluminium Company Limited merged with Sesa Goa Limited SGL A subsidiary of the Group.
Bloom Fountain Limited, a subsidiary of Sesa Goa Limited acquired a 38.7% stake in Cairn India Limited Cairn.
Consequent to this, Cairn became a subsidiary of SGL.
By way of a slump sale agreement dated 19 August 2013 between Vedanta Aluminium Limited VAL and Vedanta Limited, the power business consisting of 1,215MW thermal power facility situated at Jharsuguda and 300MW co-generation facility 90MW operational and 210MW under development at Lanjigarh, was transferred on a going concern basis at its carrying value to Vedanta Limited.
Subsequently, the name of SGL was changed to Sesa Sterlite Limited during the year ended 31 March 2014.
The name of Sesa Sterlite Limited was further changed to Vedanta Limited during the year ended 31 March 2015.
These transactions are within subsidiaries of the Company and will not have any acquisition accounting impact other than a change in the economic shareholding percentage.
The simplification exercise has resulted in simplifying the structure, cross holding and aligning the debt with cash flow and change in economic holding percentage mainly in VAL and Cairn.
VALs effective holding has changed from 87.6% to 58.3% whereas Cairns reduced from 49.8% to 34.3%.
Ultimate controlling party At 31 March 2015, the ultimate controlling party of the Group was Volcan, which is controlled by persons related to the Executive Chairman, MrAnil Agarwal.
Volcan is incorporated in the Bahamas, and does not produce Group accounts.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 203 47.
Company balance sheet 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2015 2014 Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets 49 0.3 0.7 Investments in subsidiaries 50 1,226.3 1,061.8 Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries 51 1.7 1.7 Financial asset investment 52 0.1 0.1 Derivative asset 14.1 1,228.4 1,078.4 Current assets Debtors due within one year 53 422.7 1,225.7 Debtors due after one year 53 5,066.8 5,405.2 Current asset investments 54 33.2 14.8 Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.5 5,522.8 6,646.2 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Trade and other creditors 55 97.2 98.5 External borrowings 55 270.4 89.7 Loan from subsidiary 55 1,249.5 Derivative liability 55 2.0 369.6 1,437.7 Net current assets 5,153.2 5,208.5 Total assets less current liabilities 6,381.6 6,286.9 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year Loan from subsidiary 56 1,430.2 339.8 External borrowings 56 4,345.7 5,483.6 5,775.9 5,823.4 Net assets 605.7 463.5 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 57 30.0 29.8 Share premium 57 198.5 198.5 Share-based payment reserve 57 27.4 46.9 Convertible bond reserve 57 38.4 80.1 Other reserves 57 2.2 2.2 Treasury shares 57 490.6 490.6 Retained earnings 57 804.2 601.0 Equity shareholders funds 57 605.7 463.5 The financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc, registration number 4740415 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 May 2015 and signed on their behalf by: Tom Albanese Chief Executive Officer http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 204 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48.
Company accounting policies The Vedanta Resources plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and UK company law UK GAAP.
The financial information has been prepared on an historical cost basis except preference shares, financial asset investments and derivative financial instruments which are stated at fair value.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit after tax for the year of the Company amounted to US$284.7 million 2014: loss of US$128.3 million.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars being the functional currency of the Company.
Significant accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries except preference shares, valued at cost less any provision for impairment.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries Investments in preference shares of subsidiaries are stated at fair value.
The fair value is represented by the face value of the preference shares as the investments are redeemable at any time for their face value at the option of the Company.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments.
Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are classified as available for sale under FRS 26 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company, being US dollars, are translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates, or at a contractual rate if applicable.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Amounts recharged to subsidiaries in respect of awards granted to employees of subsidiaries are recognised as intercompany debtors until repaid.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans are recorded at the net proceeds received i. e. net of direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on accruals basis and charged to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 205 48.
Company accounting policies continued Convertible bonds The convertible bond issued by VRJL and VRJL-II Note 55 are accounted for as a compound instrument.
The gross proceeds net of issue costs were lent to the Company by VRJL and VRJL-II.
The equity component has been recognised in a separate reserve of the Company and is not subsequently remeasured.
The recognition of the equity component by the Company acts to reduce the payable to VRJL and VRJL-II which arises once the gross proceeds are borrowed.
The interest expensed on the liability component is calculated by applying an effective interest rate.
The difference between interest expensed and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
The bonds are first convertible into preference shares of the issuer having a principal value of US$100,000 per Preference share, which are exchanged immediately for ordinary shares of the Company.
Financial instruments The Company has elected to take the exemption provided in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 in respect of these parent Company financial statements.
Full disclosures are provided in Note 29 to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 March 2015.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the profit and loss account and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
Cash flow statement The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available Group financial statements, which include a Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present an individual Company Cash Flow Statement.
Related party disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its Group financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do not include related party disclosures.
Financial guarantees Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of other Group companies are designated as Insurance Contracts.
Accordingly these are shown as contingent liabilities Note 58.
Debtors Debtors are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment for debtors is made where there is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the debtor.
Creditors Creditors are stated at their nominal value.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 206 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 49.
Company tangible fixed assets US$ million Cost At 1 April 2013 1.9 Additions 0.4 At 31 March 2014 2.3 Additions 0.0 At 31 March 2015 2.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2013 1.3 Charge for the period 0.3 At 31 March 2014 1.6 Charge for the period 0.4 At 31 March 2015 2.0 Net book value At 1 April 2013 0.6 At 31 March 2014 0.7 At 31 March 2015 0.3 50.
Investments in subsidiaries US$ million Cost At 1 April 2013 1,061.8 At 1 April 2014 1,061.8 At 31 March 2015 1,226.3 At 31 March 2015, the Company held 157,538,524 shares in Vedanta Resources Holdings Limited VRHL March 2014: 144,538,524 shares, being 100% of VRHLs issued equity share capital.
During the year the Company had subscribed to 13,000,000 shares of VRHL under rights issue at face value of US$1 with a premium of US$11.65 per share.
The Company also held one deferred share in VRHL March 2014: one.
At 31March 2015, the Company held two shares in Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL March 2014: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL March 2014: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited VRJL-II March 2014: two, two shares in Vedanta Jersey Investment Limited VJIL March 2014: two, being 100% of its issued equity share capital.
VRHL is an intermediary holding company incorporated in the United Kingdom Note 44 and registered in England and Wales.
VFJL, VRJL, VJIL and VRJL-II are companies, registered and incorporated in Jersey, established to raise funds for the Vedanta Group.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 207 51.
Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2014 1.7 Additions Disposal At 31 March 2015 1.7 At 1 April 2013 178.9 Additions 1.7 Disposal 178.9 At 31 March 2014 1.7 As at 31 March 2015, the Company held 1,700,000 preference shares in VRJL 31 March 2014: 1,700,000 preference shares in VRJL.
Financial asset investment US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2014 0.1 Fair value movement At 31 March 2015 0.1 At 1 April 2013 0.1 Fair value movement At 31 March 2014 0.1 The investment relates to an equity investment in the shares of Victoria Gold Corporation.
At 31 March 2015, the investment in Victoria Gold Corporation was revalued and no gain or loss 2014: no gain or loss was recognised in equity.
Company debtors 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 5,485.6 6,626.3 Prepayments and accrued income 3.5 4.4 Other taxes 0.4 0.2 Total 5,489.5 6,630.9 Debtors due within one year 422.7 1,225.7 Debtors due after one year 5,066.8 5,405.2 Total 5,489.5 6,630.9 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings At 31 March 2015, the Company had loans due from VRHL of US$1,507.5 million 2014: US$1,214.6 million which represented the funds being loaned to other Group companies for funding the subsidiaries.
Out of the total loan, US$579.3 million bears interest at six month US$LIBOR plus 350 basis points, US$500 million at 5.8%, US$31.2 million at 5.9%, US$47 million at 9.7%, and US$350 million at US$LIBOR plus 367 basispoints.
At 31 March 2015, the Company had loans of US$3,590.5 million 2014: US$4,732.7 million from Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited.
Out of the total loan US$119.2 million bears interest at US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points, US$1,413.0 million at 7.45%, US$1,200 million at 6.50%, US$48.3 million at LIBOR plus 300 basis points US$60 million at 3.15% and US$750 million at 7.25%.
In addition to the loans, the Company was owed US$323.3 million of accrued interest from VRHL and Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited March 2014: US$634.7 million and US$64.3 million 2014: US$44.2 million other receivables from Group companies.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 208 Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 54.
Company current asset investments 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Bank term deposits 33.2 14.8 Total 33.2 14.8 55.
Company creditors: amounts falling due within one year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Accruals 97.2 98.5 External borrowings 270.4 89.7 Loan from subsidiary 1,249.5 Derivative liability 2.0 Total 369.6 1,437.7 The external borrowings as at 31 March 2015 represent a loan from ICICI of US$90 million 2014: US$90 million, repayable in December 2015 and a loan from Deutsche Bank of US$185 million repayable in March 2016.
As at 31 March 2014, loans from subsidiaries included a loan of US$1,192.8 million from VRJL relating to its issue of US$1,250 million convertible bonds bond issued in July 2009.
In March 2014, VRJL believed that bondholders would exercise the put option in July 2014 and accordingly the above loan was classified as amounts falling due within one year.
However, bonds worth US$113.8 million were exercised by bondholders in July 2014 and since now the final maturity is in July 2016 the above loan has been classified from amounts falling due within one year to amounts falling due after one year US$1,110.5 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, interest was charged at the effective interest rate of 8.27% March 2014: 17.3%.
Company creditors: amounts falling due after one year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2015 2014 Loan from subsidiary 1,430.2 339.8 External borrowings 4,345.7 5,483.6 Total 5,775.9 5,823.4 Loans from subsidiaries include a loan of US$39.7 million due to Richter Holdings Limited, US$280.0 million to Vedanta Finance UK Limited and US$1,110.5 million to VRJL as discussed in Note 55.
Of the US$1,250 million non-convertible bond issued during 2008, US$500 million was repaid in January 2014 and the remaining US$750 million, 9.5% bonds are due for repayment in July 2018.
In July 2011, the Company issued US$750 million, 6.75% bonds due June 2016, and US$900 million, 8.25% bonds due June 2021.
As at 31March 2015, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$1,650.0 million.
In March 2012, the Company availed a facility of US$300.0 million with Standard Chartered Bank bearing an interest rate of LIBOR plus 415 basis points.
In December 2012, the Company obtained a syndicated loan with State Bank of India as an agent for US$595.0 million repayable in four equal instalments in February 2017, August 2017, July 2018 and January 2019.
The loan bears an interest rate of three month US$LIBOR plus 440 basis points.
The Company has prepaid this loan of US$595.0 million in September 2014.
In April 2013, the Company entered into a Standby Letter of Credit agreement arranged by Axis Bank for an amount of US$150 million at a commission of 1% per annum payable quarterly.
The facility is funded by Bank of India to the extent of US$148.5 million and bears an interest rate three month US$LIBOR plus 290 basis points.
The facility is repayable in two equal annual instalments starting April 2017.
As at 31 March 2015, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$148.5 million.
In June 2013, the Company issued US$1,200 million, 6.00% bonds due January 2019, and US$500 million, 7.125% bonds due May 2023.
In December 2013, the Company entered into a facility agreement with Bank of India for borrowing up to US$100 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points repayable to the extent of 50% in October 2017 and the balance in January 2018.
As at 31 March 2015, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$100 million.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 209 56.
Company creditors: amounts falling due after one year continued In March 2015, the Company entered into a facility agreement with State Bank of India for borrowing up to US$350 million.
US$100 million is repayable in March 2020 and bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 370 basis points.
US$250 million bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 403 basis points repayable in two instalments being US$100 million and US$150 million at the end of 72 and 84 months respectively after initial utilisation.
US$325 million still remains undrawn in this facility.
Company reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds Share Share-based capital Share payment Convertible Treasury Retained Other US$ million Note 35 premium reserve bond reserve shares earnings reserves Total Equity shareholders funds at 1 April 2014 29.8 198.5 46.9 80.1 490.6 601.0 2.2 463.5 Profit for the year 284.7 284.7 Dividends paid Note 14 171.3 171.3 Exercise of LTIP awards Note 32 0.2 48.1 48.1 0.2 Recognition of share-based payments Note32 28.6 28.6 Convertible bond transfer Note 28 41.7 41.7 Equity shareholders funds at 31 March 2015 30.0 198.5 27.4 38.4 490.6 804.2 2.2 605.7 58.
Company contingent liabilities a The Company has guaranteed US$1,250 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL 2014: US$1,250 million, of the above US$1.7 million has been converted during the year ended 31 March 2014 and US$113.8 million was repaid pursuant to exercise of put option during the year ended 31 March 2015.
See Note 28 to the financial statements for further details on the convertible bonds.
b The Company has given a corporate guarantee to Jharsuguda Aluminium, for an amount of US$12 million up to 31 March 2015. c The Company has given a corporate guarantee to Konkola Copper Mines for an amount of US$619.0 million up to 31 March 2015. d The Company has guaranteed US$883 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL-II 2014: US$883 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015, US$809.8 million and US$65.1 million respectively was repaid to the bondholders on exercise of put option.
e The Company has guaranteed US$170 million for a loan facility entered by Valliant Jersey Limited with ICICI bank and US$180 million for a loan facility entered by Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited with ICICI bank.
f The Company has guaranteed US$500 million for a syndicated facility agreement entered by Welter Trading Limited with Standard Chartered Bank as facility agent.
g The Company has guaranteed US$500 million for loan facility entered by Monte Cello NV with ICICI bank.
h The Company has guaranteed US$150 million for loan facility entered by Twin Star Holdings Limited with ICICI bank.
i The Company has guaranteed US$100 million for revolving credit facility entered by Twin Star Holdings Limited with Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered Bank.
j The Company has guaranteed US$500 million for a syndicated facility entered by Twin Star Holdings Limited with Axis Bank as lead arranger and facility agent.
k The Company has guaranteed US$1,200 million for a syndicated facility entered by Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited with Standard Chartered Bank as facility agent.
l The Company has guaranteed US$500 million for a loan facility entered by Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited with Standard Chartered Bank and First Gulf Bank PJSC of which US$250 million is under a commodity murabaha structure Islamic financing and balance US$250 million is under a conventional loan structure.
m The Company has guaranteed US$1,250 million for a loan facility entered by its subsidiaries THL Zinc Limited with Cairn India Holdings Limited Intercompany loan.
n The Company has provided a guarantee for the Cairn India Groups obligation under the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Company share-based payment The Company had certain LTIP awards outstanding as at 31 March 2015.
See Note 32 to the financial statements for further details on these share-based payments.
