118 Vesuvius plc Section Five Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information Vesuvius plc Vesuvius or the Company is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary and joint venture companies theGroup is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to63 and its registered address is shown on page 166.
Basis of Preparation 2.1 Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, with the exception of defined benefit pension plans, certain provisions, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments, under the historical cost convention.
2.2 Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to direct the relevant activities of an entity that significantly affect the entitys return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
In assessing whether control exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-controlling interests share of profit or loss, each component of other comprehensive income, and dividends paid since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
2.3 Going concern The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Groups future trading performance.
The forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the Companys financial covenants.
On the basis of the exercise described above and the Groups available committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis inpreparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
2.4 Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in millions of pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and rounded toone decimal place.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 28.1.
2.5 Disclosure of separately reported items IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In accordance with IAS 1, the Company has adopted a columnar presentation for its Group income statement, to separately identify Headline Performance results, as the Directors consider that this gives a better view of the underlying results of the ongoing business.
As part of this presentation format, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement, within the column entitled Separately reported items, the effect of any components of financial performance for which the Directors consider separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
In its adoption of this policy, the Company applies an even-handed approach to both gains and losses and aims to be both consistent and clear in its accounting and disclosure of such items.
