Non-GAAP Financial Measures continued 4.7 Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing headline profit before tax less associated income tax costs, attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
4.8 Operating Cash flow Operating cash flow is cash generated from continuing operations before restructuring and additional pension funding contributions but after deducting capital expenditure net of asset disposals.
4.9 Free cash flow Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans.
4.10 Average working capital to sales ratio The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances to the total revenue for the year, using constant foreign exchange rates.
Average working capital comprising inventories, trade receivables and trade payables is calculated as the average of the 12 previous month-end balances.
4.11 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation and amortisation of non-acquired intangibles charges.
4.12 Net interest Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item separately reported.
4.13 Interest cover Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
4.14 Net debt Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
4.15 Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
4.16 Return on net assets RONA RONA is calculated as trading profit plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by average net operating assets, at constant foreign exchange rates being the average over the previous 12months of property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and payables.
4.17 Constant rates Figures presented at constant rates represent December 2014 numbers retranslated to December 2015 exchange rates.
Segment Information The segment information contained in this Note makes reference to several non-GAAP financial measures, definitions of which can be found in Note 4.
5.1 Business segments Operating segments for continuing operations Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Directors of the Board, who make the key operating decisions and is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Reflecting the Groups management and internal reporting structure, segmental information is presented in respect of the two main business segments: Steel and Foundry.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 53.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers inter-segment revenue is not material.
Trading profit includes items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
