120 Vesuvius plc Section Five Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Accounting Policies and Critical Judgements continued 3.3 Provisions Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
Several of the Groups subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations ofthe company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities.
Provisions are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make provisions in the financial statements for an appropriate amount relating to such matters.
3.4 Taxation a Current tax Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group.
In assessing the amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to tax audits and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude.
Provisions are made for known issues based upon the Directors interpretation of country-specific tax law and their assessment of the likely outcome.
b Deferred tax The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a number of the Groups businesses, further details of which are given in Note 11.4.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
Ifthese forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing differences might be recognised, then the value of deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group also has losses and other timing differences, analysed in Note 11.4, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in these financial statements, relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of the timing difference is not probable or to where the timing difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance withIFRS.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing theunderlying financial and operating performance ofthe Group and its divisions.
4.1 Headline Headline performance is from continuing operations and before items reported separately on the face of the income statement.
4.2 Underlying Underlying performance is adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in exchange rates, business acquisitions and disposals.
4.3 Return on sales Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
4.4 Trading profit Trading profit is defined as operating profit before separately reported items.
The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
4.5 Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs associated with headline performance.
4.6 Effective tax rate The Groups effective tax rate is calculated on the income tax costs associated with headline performance, divided by headline profit before tax and before theGroups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures.
