Basis of Preparation continued 2.5 Disclosure of separately reported items continued Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of exceptional items which occur infrequently, such as major restructuring activity, initial recognition and subsequent increase, decrease and amortisation of US deferred tax assets, together with items always reported separately, such as amortisation charges relating to acquired intangible assets, profits or losses arising on the disposal of continuing or discontinued operations and the taxation impact of the aforementioned exceptional items and items reported separately.
2.6 New and revised IFRS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective after 1 January 2018, for the year-end 2018, replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets, and new general hedge accounting requirements.
It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from IAS 39.
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements resulting from the application of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective after 1 January 2018, for the year-end 2018, establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
Based on a preliminary assessment of the adoption of IFRS 15, the Group currently does not believe there will be a significant impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 16 Leases effective after 1 January 2019, for the year-end 2019, replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements resulting from the application of IFRS 16.
Other new or amended standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Accounting Policies and Critical Judgements Determining the carrying amount of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effect of uncertain future events.
The major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are noted below.
3.1 Goodwill and other intangible assets The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets.
In the assessment undertaken as at 31December 2015, further details of which are given in Note 18, value in use was derived from discounted three-year cash flow projections and terminal value based on a growth rate of 2.5% in the years beyond the projection period.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
3.2 Employee benefits The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-retirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used could affect the Groups profit and financial position.
