NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill continued 1.6m of goodwill was recognised in the current period on the acquisition of Kleiss Gears.
This element of goodwill is measured against the discounted future cash flow projections of the Kleiss Gears business.
The long-term average growth rate used was 2.0% and the risk adjusted discount rate was 11.0%.
Based on the impairment results, it has been determined to be unlikely that any reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill.
The remaining goodwill comprises 10.1m in Victrex Polymer Solutions relating to acquisitions associated with the supply of our key raw material BDF in 1999 and 2005 7.4m and the residual balance of our Japanese joint venture in 2007 2.7m.
This element of goodwill is measured against the discounted future cash flow projections of our Victrex Polymer Solutions business unit excluding Kleiss Gears.
The long-term average growth rate used was 2.0% 2014: 2.0% and the risk adjusted discount rate was 8.0% 2014: 8.0%.
The impairment test results in more than 100% headroom and so it is unlikely that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption would result in an impairment of goodwill.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment.
Theestimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effectof any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated useful economic lives as follows: Computer software 5 years straight line Customer relationships 10 years systematic Amortisation on assets classified as in the course of construction commences when the assets are ready for their intended use, the point of which they are reclassified from assets under construction, on the same basis as other assets of that class.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, isrecognised within the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred unless it meets all the criteria to be capitalised under IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Research and development expenditure of 13.7m 2014: 15.7m was expensed to the income statement in the year within administrative expenses.
Investments Investments In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any impairment in the value oftheinvestment.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable orconvertible are considered in assessing control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated inpreparing the consolidated financial statements.
Company Shares in Group undertakings m Cost and carrying value At 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 48.2 Cash equity injection 7.5 Capitalisation of intragroup loans 55.9 At 30 September 2015 111.6 On 30 September 2015, following a review of intragroup balances, the Company capitalised 55.9m of balances withVictrex US Holdings Inc 34.6m and Invibio Limited 21.3m.
In addition, 7.5m of equity was injected into VictrexUS Holdings Inc. Victrex plc 84 Annual Report 2015
