Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2015 The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree Articles of association and todo so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members applicable English law in a general meeting and subject to and in accordance with section The following description summarises certain provisions 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such authority was given at the 2014 of the Companys articles of association and applicable English annual general meeting but no purchases were made during this law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the financial year.
Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys articles of association.
See Documents on display on page191 for information At each annual general meeting all Directors who were elected on where copies of the articles of association can be obtained.
or last re-elected at or before the annual general meeting held in the The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England third calendar year before the current year shall automatically retire.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the In 2005 the Company reviewed its policy regarding the retirement name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration and re-election of Directors and, although itisnot intended to amend number 1833679. the Companys articles of association in thisregard, the Board has decided in the interests of good corporate governance that all of the All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, Directors wishing to continue in office should offer themselves for no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from re-election annually.
the holders of such shares.
Directors are not required under the Companys articles of association English law specifies that any alteration to the articles of association tohold any shares of the Company as a qualification to act must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
as a Director, although Executive Directors participating in long-term Articles of association incentive plans must comply with the Companys share ownership By a special resolution passed at the 2010 annual general meeting the guidelines.
Inaccordance with best practice in the UK for corporate Company removed its object clause together with all other provisions governance, compensation awarded to Executive Directors of its memorandum of association which, by virtue of the Companies is decided by a Remuneration Committee consisting exclusively Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of .
Accordingly, the Companys articles of association In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report do notspecifically restrict the objects of the Company.
Regulations, the Board has, since 2003, prepared a report Directors to shareholders on the Directors remuneration which complies The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of Directors, with theregulations see pages 75 to 91.
The report is also subject consisting of not fewer than three Directors, who shall manage the to ashareholder vote.
business and affairs of the Company.
Rights attaching to the Companys shares The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company At 31 March 2015 the issued share capital of the Company was subject to any restrictions in the articles of association, the Companies comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 Act as defined in the articles of association and any special resolution.
each, 26,512,038,085 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares Under the Companys articles of association a Director cannot 20 of 20 21US cents each and 33,737,176,433 deferred shares vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person of US$0.00001 each.
The 33,737,176,433 deferred shares were connected with the Director, has a material interest other than by virtue transferred to Vodafone Group Plc and cancelled on 8 May 2015. of the Directors interest in the Companys shares or other securities.
Dividend rights However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions i giving Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid the Director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity inrespect of each financial year, or other accounting period of the in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the Company, a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum benefit ofthe Company: ii giving any guarantee, security or indemnity on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative to the Director or a third party in respect of obligations of the preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable Company for which the Director has assumed responsibility under profits which the Directors have resolved should be distributed.
an indemnity orguarantee: iii relating to an offer of securities of the The fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the Company in whichthe Director is entitled to participate as a holder Companys profits.
of shares or othersecurities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities: iv concerning any other company in which the Director Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the or is otherwise interested, provided that the Director together with amount recommended by the Directors.
The Board of Directors may any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of any class also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of the Companys equity share capital or the voting rights available of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can to its shareholders: v relating to the arrangement of any employee be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the Directors decide, benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees: using anappropriate exchange rate for any currency conversions and vi relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews whicharerequired.
for its Directors or any group of people including Directors.
If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount resolution of the Directors providing for payment of that dividend, of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time the Directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either in the articles of association unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, of the Companys shareholders.
it willbe forfeited and belong to the Company.
