NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Property, plant and equipment In relation to property, plant and equipment, useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.
Assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to a change in the useful economic life or a potential impairment of the carrying value of such assets.
Historically, changes in carrying value, useful lives or residual values have not resulted in material changes to either the carrying value oftheGroups assets or the annual depreciated expense.
Tax provisioning The Group operates in a number of geographies and different tax jurisdictions.
There is an inherent uncertainty in some of these jurisdictions requiring judgement at period ends over the amount of taxation payable.
Management use their experience of each geography along with that of their advisors in estimating the tax charge for the period.
Research and development expenditure The Group incurs significant expenditure on research and development, both in respect of internal process improvement and product andapplication development.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets sets out strict criteria in respect of capitalising development costs, which require anelement of judgement to assess if these have been made.
The nature of our business is such that new products and applications often needto go through lengthy client testing and regulatory approval, the success of which is inherently uncertain and therefore predicting theoutcome requires a significant level of judgement.
Assuch, until these phases are complete the expenditure is not considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria, bywhich point the significant majority of development expenditure has been incurred.
Accordingly no development expenditure hasbeen capitalised in the current or prior years.
Exchange rates Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operated the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, whichisthe Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the retranslation to balance sheet date exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Inaddition, where an exchange difference arises on an intragroup monetary item that, in substance, forms part of the entitys net investment in a foreign operation, these differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements and accumulated in equity until the disposal of the foreign operation.
Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which have the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have afunctional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: u assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: u income and expenses for each income statement are translated at weighted average exchange rates: and u all resulting exchange differences, from 1 October 2004, are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The most significant Sterling exchange rates used in the financial statements under the Groups accounting policies are: 2015 2014 Average Closing Average Closing US Dollar 1.63 1.51 1.60 1.62 Euro 1.24 1.36 1.19 1.28 Yen 175 181 155 178 Victrex plc 96 Annual Report 2015
