Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows, where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote, but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
2015 2014 m m 1 Performance bonds 766 442 2 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 2,539 2,500 Notes: 1 Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any relatedcontracts or commercial arrangements.
2 Other guarantees principally comprise Vodafone Group Plcs guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD 1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited.
UK pension schemes At the start of the year, the Group had two main UK defined benefit schemes being the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone UK plan and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan CWWRP.
On 6 June 2014, all assets and liabilities of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan were transferred into a new section of the Vodafone Group Pension Scheme.
The Cable & Wireless Retirement Plan was then wound up.
There are now two segregated sections of the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme, the Vodafone Section and the CWW Section.
The Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone Section whilst there is a deficit in this section.
The deficit is measured on a prescribed basis agreed between the Group and Trustee.
In 2010 the Group and Trustee agreed security of a charge over UK index linked gilts ILG held by the Group.
In December 2011, the security was increased by an additional charge over further ILG due to a significant increase in the deficit at that time.
In April 2014, the security was reduced following a reduction in the deficit following the results of the 2013 valuation and a 325 million company contribution to the Scheme.
The Scheme retains security over 264.5 million notional value 2017 ILGs and 38 million notional value 2016 ILGs.
The security may be substituted either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
As and when alternative security is provided, the Group has agreed that the security cover should include additional headroom of 33%, although if cash is used as the security asset the ratio will revert to 100% of the relevant liabilities or where the proposed replacement security asset is listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange in certain core jurisdictions, the Trustee may decide to agree a lower ratio than 133%.
The Company has also provided two guarantees to the Vodafone Section of the scheme for a combined value up to 1.25 billion to provide security over the deficit under certain defined circumstances, including insolvency of the employers.
The Company has also agreed a similar guarantee of up to 1.25 billion for the CWW Section.
An additional smaller UK defined benefit scheme, the THUS Plc Group Scheme, has a guarantee from the Company for up to 110 million.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may from time to time become involved in a number of legal proceedings including inquiries from, or discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not currently involved in i any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries: or ii any material proceedings in which any of the Companys Directors, members of senior management or affiliates are either a party adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries or have a material interest adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings outlined below can be made.
Telecom Egypt arbitration In October 2009 Telecom Egypt commenced arbitration against Vodafone Egypt in Cairo alleging breach of non-discrimination provisions in an interconnection agreement as a result of lower interconnection rates paid to Vodafone Egypt by Mobinil.
Telecom Egypt also sought to join Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV, Vodafone Europe BV VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc to the arbitration.
In January 2015, the arbitral tribunal issued its decision.
It held unanimously that it had no jurisdiction to arbitrate the claim against VIHBV, VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc.
The tribunal also held by a three to two majority that Telecom Egypt had failed to establish any liability on the part of Vodafone Egypt.
Telecom Egypt has applied to the Egyptian court to set aside the decision.
Indian tax case In August 2007 and September 2007, Vodafone India Limited VIL and VIHBV respectively received notices from the Indian tax authority alleging potential liability in connection with an alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned subsidiary that indirectly holds interests in VIL.
In January 2012 the Indian Supreme Court handed down its judgement, holding that VIHBVs interpretation of the Income Tax Act 1961 was correct, that the HTIL transaction in 2007 was not taxable in India, and that consequently, VIHBV had no obligation to withhold tax from consideration paid to HTIL in respect of the transaction.
The Indian Supreme Court quashed the relevant notices and demands issued to VIHBV in respect of withholding tax and interest.
On 20 March 2012 the Indian Government returned VIHBVs deposit of INR 25 billion and released the guarantee for INR 85 billion, which was based on the demand for payment issued by the Indian tax authority in October 2010, for tax of INR 79 billion plus interest.
On 28 May 2012 the Finance Act 2012 became law.
The Finance Act 2012 is intended to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company, which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets, such as VIHBVs transaction with HTIL in 2007.
Further it seeks to subject a purchaser, such as VIHBV, to a retrospective obligation to withhold tax.
168 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 VIHBV has not received any formal demand for taxation in respect of the HTIL transaction following the effective date of the Finance Act 2012, but it did receive a letter on 3 January 2013 reminding it of the tax demand raised prior to the Indian Supreme Courts judgement and purporting to update the interest element of that demand to a total amount of INR 142 billion.
The separate proceedings taken against VIHBV to seek to treat it as an agent of HTIL in respect of its alleged tax on the same transaction, as well as penalties of up to 100% of the assessed withholding tax for the alleged failure to have withheld such taxes, remain pending despite the issue having been ruled upon by the Indian Supreme Court.
Should a further demand for taxation be received by VIHBV or any member of the Group as a result of the new retrospective legislation, we believe it is probable that we will be able to make a successful claim under the Dutch-India Bilateral Investment Treaty Dutch BIT.
On 17 January 2014, VIHBV served an amended trigger notice on the Indian Government under the Dutch BIT, supplementing a trigger notice filed on 17 April 2012, immediately prior to the Finance Act 2012 becoming effective, to add claims relating to an attempt by the Indian Government to tax aspects of the transaction with HTIL under transfer pricing rules.
On 17 April 2014, VIHBV served its notice of arbitration under the Dutch BIT, formally commencing the Dutch BIT arbitration proceedings.
An arbitrator has been appointed by VIHBV.
The Indian Government appointed an arbitrator but he resigned in May 2015.
The third arbitrator, who will act as chairman of the tribunal, had been agreed by the two party-appointed arbitrators prior to the Governments arbitrators resignation but declined to accept the appointment.
There is now likely to be a delay in appointing the chairman pending the Indian Government appointing a replacement for its party-appointed arbitrator.
If there is no subsequent agreement on appointment of a chairman, the International Court of Justice will appoint the third arbitrator.
We did not carry a provision for this litigation or in respect of the retrospective legislation at 31 March 2015, or at previous reporting dates.
Other Indian tax cases VIL and Vodafone India Services Private Limited VISPL formerly 3GSPL are involved in a number of tax cases with total claims exceeding 1.5 billion plus interest, and penalties of up to 300% of the principal.
VIL tax claims The claims against VIL range from disputes concerning transfer pricing and the applicability of value-added tax to SIM cards, to the disallowance of income tax holidays.
The quantum of the tax claims against VIL is in the region of 1.3 billion.
VIL is of the opinion that any finding of material liability to tax is not probable.
VISPL tax claims VISPL has been assessed as owing tax of approximately 260 million plus interest of 190 million in respect of i a transfer pricing margin charged for the international call centre of HTIL prior to the 2007 transaction with Vodafone for HTIL assets in India: ii the sale of the international call centre by VISPL to HTIL: and iii the acquisition of and or the alleged transfer of options held by VISPL for VIL equity shares.
The first two of the three heads of tax are subject to an indemnity by HTIL under the VIHBV Tax Deed of Indemnity.
The larger part of the potential claim is not subject to any indemnity.
VISPL unsuccessfully challenged the merits of the tax demand in the statutory tax tribunal and the jurisdiction of the tax office to make the demand in the High Court.
The Tax Appeal Tribunal has now heard the appeal and ruled in the Tax Offices favour.
VISPL has lodged an appeal and stay application in the Bombay High Court which was partially heard in April and concluded in early May 2015.
In the meantime, i a stay of the tax demand on a deposit of 20 million and ii a corporate guarantee by VIHBV for the balance of tax assessed remains in place pending a decision on the appeal in the Bombay High Court which is expected during 2015.
If VISPL loses the appeal, its terms of the stay of demand may be revisited and could be increased while VISPL pursues a further appeal in the Supreme Court.
Indian regulatory cases Litigation remains pending in the Telecommunications Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal TDSAT, High Courts and the Supreme Court in relation to a number of significant regulatory issues including mobile termination rates MTRs, spectrum and licence fees, licence extension and3G intra-circle roaming ICR.
Public interest litigation: Yakesh Anand v Union of India, Vodafone and others The Petitioner brought a special leave petition in the Indian Supreme Court on 30 January 2012 against the Government of India and mobile network operators, including VIL, seeking recovery of the alleged excess spectrum allocated to the operators, compensation for the alleged excess spectrum held in the amount of approximately 4.7 billion and a criminal investigation of an alleged conspiracy between government officials and the network operators.
A claim with similar allegations was dismissed by the Supreme Court in March 2012, with an order that the Petitioner should pay a fine for abuse of process.
The case is pending before the Supreme Court and is expected to be called for hearing at some uncertain future date.
One time spectrum charges: Vodafone India v Union of India The Government of India has sought to impose one time spectrum charges of approximately 525 million on certain operating subsidiaries of VIL.
We filed a petition before the TDSAT challenging the one time spectrum charges on the basis that they are illegal, violate Vodafones licence terms and are arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory.
The tribunal stayed enforcement of the Governments spectrum demand pending resolution of the dispute.
The Indian Department of Telecommunications DoT recently proposed that, since several operators have brought similar challenges in different jurisdictions, they move a transfer petition before the Supreme Court.
Accordingly, the matter in the TDSAT stands adjourned until 11 August 2015.
3G inter-circle roaming: Vodafone India and others v Union of India In April 2013, the DoT issued a stoppage notice to VILs operating subsidiaries and other mobile operators requiring the immediate stoppage of the provision of 3G services on other operators mobile networks in an alleged breach of licences.
The regulator also imposed a fine of approximately 5.5 million.
We applied to the Delhi High Court for an order quashing the regulators notice.
Interim relief from the notice has been granted but limited to existing customers at the time with the effect that VIL was not able to provide 3G services to new customers on other operators 3G networks pending a decision on the issue.
The dispute was referred to the TDSAT for decision, which ruled on 28 April 2014 that VIL and the other operators were permitted to provide 3G services to their customers current and future on other operators networks.
The DoT has appealed the judgement, which is pending before the Supreme Court.
169 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities continued Extension of licences in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata: VIL and others v Union of India We sought an extension of our existing licences in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata.
That extension was denied by the DoT by order dated 21 March 2013.
We appealed that decision to the TDSAT and by its order dated 31 January 2014, the TDSAT denied the extension.
In the meantime, in order to maintain continuity of services, VIL sought and obtained spectrum in these cities.
The appeal to the Supreme Court was rejected on 14 May 2015.
Other cases in the Group Italy British Telecom Italy v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations that it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, British Telecom Italy brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
British Telecom Italy seeks damages in the amount of 280 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market for the period from 1999 to 2007.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 10 million to 25 million which was reduced in a further supplemental report published in September 2014 to a range of 8 million to 11 million.
The experts report will be considered by the Court before it passes judgement on the case.
FASTWEB v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, FASTWEB brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
FASTWEB sought damages in the amount of 360 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 0.5 million to 2.3 million.
On 15 October 2014, the Court decided to reject FASTWEBs damages claim in its entirety.
Greece Papistas Holdings SA, Mobile Trade Stores formerly Papistas SA and Athanasios and Loukia Papistas v Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and Officers of Vodafone In December 2013, Mr and Mrs Papistas, and companies owned or controlled by them, brought three claims in the Greek court in Athens against Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and officers of Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc for purported damage caused by the alleged abuse of dominance and wrongful termination of a franchise arrangement with a Papistas company.
Approximately 1.0 billion of the claim is directed exclusively at one former and one current Director of Vodafone Greece.
The balance of the claim approximately 285.5 million is sought from Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc on a joint and several basis.
The cases are scheduled to come to trial in November 2015 and April 2016.
Tanzania Cats-Net Limited v Vodacom Tanzania Limited In 2012, Cats-Net Limited brought a claim for US$500 million US$200 million compensatory and US$300 million punitive in damages against Vodacom Tanzania Limited in the Tanzanian High Court.
Cats-Net Limited is also seeking an order cancelling Vodacom Tanzanias mobile telecommunications licence.
The claim is based on the actions of the Tanzanian Telecommunications Regulatory Authority TTRA who, following complaints by Vodacom Tanzania of interference caused by transmissions of Cats-Net Limited, allegedly shut down the operations of Cats-Net Limited after conducting its own investigation.
Cats-Net Limited alleges collusion between the TTRA and Vodacom Tanzania.
Vodacom Tanzania filed an application to strike out the claim.
That application has been argued and the parties await a decision of the Court.
