Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 19.
Related party transactions Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and so are only disclosed for the Companys financial statements.
Company 2015 2014 m m Trading transactions with subsidiaries Administrative expenses paid on Companys behalf by subsidiaries 0.4 0.5 Management charge to subsidiaries 1.9 1.6 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 9.1 79.8 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 21.8 8.5 Financing transactions with subsidiaries Dividends received from subsidiaries 35.8 102.2 Cash transfers received from subsidiaries 18.2 37.9 Cash transfers made to subsidiaries 67.0 7.4 Non-current amounts receivable from subsidiaries 19.9 The Groups retirement benefit plans are related parties and the Groups and Companys transactions with them are disclosed in note 15.
Details of transactions during the year relating to the Companys investments in subsidiaries can be found in note 10.
Details of loan balances between the Company and its subsidiaries can be found in note 14.
Transactions with key management personnel The key management of the Group and Company consists of the Board of Directors.
Details of Directors remuneration, including non-cash benefits and contributions to post-employment defined benefit plans, are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 64.
Directors of the Company control 3.55% of the voting shares of the Company, details of which are given on page 61.
Details of Directors indemnities are given on page 67.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values ofassets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that the Directors have made intheprocess of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Management has discussed these with the Audit Committee.
These should beread in conjunction with the significant accounting policies provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Inventory valuation The valuation of inventory includes the absorption of directly attributable costs over a normal level of production.
Judgement is used both inidentification of directly attributable costs and normal production.
The assessment of normal production considers actual, prior period and budgeted production when concluding on the appropriate level.
Management use their detailed experience in this process.
Inventory provisions are put in place for slow moving and potentially obsolete inventory where cost is considered to be higher than net realisable value.
The level of provisioning being a judgement based on ageing, customer order profiles, alternative routes to market and the option to re-process.
Pension scheme The valuation of pension scheme liabilities is calculated in accordance with Group policy.
The valuation is prepared by independent qualifiedactuaries but significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, inflation, the discount rate applied, investment returns and member longevity, which underpin the valuations.
Note 15 contains information about theassumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations.
