Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information Voting rights i above and the amount of equity securities specified by shareholders The Companys articles of association provide that voting on substantive under ii above were both inline with corporate governance resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution guidelines.
The Directors consider itdesirable to have the maximum at a general meeting shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll, each flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy to market developments and to enable allotments to take place has one vote for every share held.
Procedural resolutions such to finance business opportunities as they arise.
In order to retain such as a resolution to adjourn a general meeting or a resolution on the maximum flexibility, the Directors propose to renew the authorities choice of Chairman of a general meeting shall be decided on a show granted by shareholders in 2014 at thisyears annual general meeting.
of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one Further details of such proposals are provided in the 2015 notice vote regardless ofthe number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
In addition, thearticles of association allow persons appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a show Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares ofhands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby meetings.
The articles of association also allow persons appointed persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the asproxies by two or more shareholders entitled to vote at general Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership meetings to vote for and against a resolution on a show of hands.
percentage although such requirements exist under rules derived from the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
Under English law two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for purposes of a general meeting unless a companys articles The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing of association specify otherwise.
The Companys articles of association of shares that are admitted to trading on a regulated market and do not specify otherwise, except that the shareholders do not carrying voting rights is an obligation to provide written notification need to be present in person and may instead be present by proxy to the Company, including certain details as set out in DTR 5, where the to constitute a quorum.
percentage of the persons voting rights which he holds as shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments falling Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the within DTR 5.3.
1R reaches or exceeds 3% and reaches, exceeds or falls Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak andvote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company may, Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them bynotice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has ascorporate representatives with respect to the underlying ordinary reasonable cause to believe is, or was during the preceding three shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively holders of ADSs are years, interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the inaccordance with their instructions.
DTR 3 deals with the disclosure by persons discharging managerial responsibility and their connected persons Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their account Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested nominee share in the shares of the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies Act 2006 account through the respective plans trustees.
sets out the statutory functions of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only the Panel.
The Panel is responsible for issuing and administering the entitled to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached Code on Takeovers & Mergers which includes disclosure requirements to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% on all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities cumulative fixed rate share.
of an offeror or offeree company and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment General meetings and notices of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, Subject to the articles of association, annual general meetings are held the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would at such times and place as determined by the Directors of the Company.
be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, The Directors may also, when they think fit, convene other general together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the meetings of the Company.
General meetings may also be convened Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not on requisition as provided by the Companies Act 2006. have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
An annual general meeting needs to be called by not less than 21 days Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares notice in writing.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual Under section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors are, with basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
certain exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares The Directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without ofmeetings are those persons entered on the register at the close the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, of business on a day determined by the Directors but not later than section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 imposes further restrictions 21 days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 also specify the record date, the time of which shall be determined which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible in accordance with the articles of association and the Companies into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash Act2006.
and notfirst offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys articles Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far ofassociation allow shareholders to authorise Directors for a period as the Companies Act 2006 allows an electronic address or fax number specified in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities inthe UK in order to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders: and ii equity meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances securities for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive the Company may give notices to shareholders bypublication on the offer up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the Companys website and advertisement in newspapers in the UK.
At the 2014 annual general Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the meeting the amount of relevant securities fixed by shareholders under 190 terms of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs.
