Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
The separate financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of Company financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Company financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Theseseparate financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of the profit or loss or cash flows of the Company.
The Company hasnot published its individual cash flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and financial adaptability are dependent on the Group rather than its own cash flows.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has not produced any disclosuresrequired by that standard, as disclosures that comply with FRS 29 are available in the Vodafone Group Plc consolidated financial statements for the yearended 31 March 2015.
Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Accounting convention The Company financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of theUK Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the Companys functional currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws thathave been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance sheet date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the Company financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferredtax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Company balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for hedge 181 accounting or the Company chooses to end the hedgingrelationship.
