Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and a the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 May 2015 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Vodafone Group Plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3 Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for 2015 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form 104 20-F for 2015.
