Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation General information Victrex plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Theaddress of its registered office is Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire FY5 4QD, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 December 2015.
Basis of preparation Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU endorsed IFRS and on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 35.
In addition, note 14 on financial risk management details the Groups exposure to a variety of financial risks, including currency and credit risk.
The Group has significant positive cash balances and has a committed bank facility of 40m which expires in 2017.
Thisfacility was undrawn at30 September 2015 and remained undrawn at 8 December 2015 when these consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors.
The Directors have performed a robust assessment, including review of the budget for the year ended 30 September 2016 and longer term strategic forecasts and plans including consideration of the principal risks faced by the Company, as detailed on pages 22 and 23.
Following this review the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate and meet their liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, a period considered to beat least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Details of the Groups policy on liquidity risk and capital management are included in note 14 to the financial statements.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of section408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part oftheapproved financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with endorsed IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates andassociated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Details of significant estimates and assumptions are set out in note 20.
The accounting policies set out in these notes have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by Group entities.
A number of new standards and amendments to existing standards were effective for the financial year ending 30September 2015, which included: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: u IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: u IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: u IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: u IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: u Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee contributions u Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle u None of these have had a material impact to the Groups consolidated result or financial position.
A number of standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued and endorsed by the EU but are not yet effective and accordingly the Group has not yet adopted.
The cumulative impact of the adoption of these standards isnot expected to be significant.
