Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2015 Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general Exchange controls meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict sixmonths of the Companys year end.
or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary Electronic communications shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
The Company has previously passed a resolution allowing it to communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, including making such information available on the Companys website.
Taxation Those shareholders who have positively elected for website As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax communication or are deemed to have consented to receive electronic advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax communication in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 will consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their receive written notification whenever shareholder documentation particular circumstances.
ismade available on the website.
This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, Variation of rights in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that of holders subject to special rules including, for example, US expatriates class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
and former long-term residents of the US and officers of the Company: employees and holders that, directly, indirectly or by attribution, At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the articles hold 5% or more of the Companys voting stock: financial institutions: of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, insurance companies: individual retirement accounts and other except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which tax-deferred accounts: tax-exempt organisations: dealers in securities must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than or currencies: investors that will hold shares or ADSs as part of straddles, one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such hedging transactions or conversion transactions for US federal income quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds tax purposes: investors holding shares or ADSs in connection with shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds: ii any a trade or business conducted outside of the US: or investors whose person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll: and iii each functional currency is not the US dollar.
shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with income tax purposes: or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets a a citizen or resident of the US: of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
a a US domestic corporation: a an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax Limitations on voting and shareholding regardless of its source: or As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the a a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly No shareholder has any securities carrying special rights with regard elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income to control of the Company.
Documents on display If an entity treated as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes The Company is subject to the information requirements of the holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and with these requirements the Company files its Annual Report the tax treatment of the partnership.
Holders that are entities treated on Form20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes should consult documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms their tax advisers concerning the US federal income tax consequences located at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the to them and their partners of the ownership and disposition of ADSs operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the United by the partnership.
States by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website at sec.
as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations Shareholders can also obtain copies ofthe Companys articles thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws of association from our website at vodafone.
com governance of the UK and the Double Taxation Convention between the US and or fromthe Companys registeredoffice.
the UK the treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Material contracts This section is further based in part upon the representations of the At the date of this Annual Report the Group is not party to any contracts depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement that are considered material to the Groups results or operations and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with except for its US$3.9 billion and 3.9 billion revolving credit facilities its terms.
which are discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the consolidated financial statements.
191 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information For the purposes of the treaty and the USUK double taxation Taxation of capital gains convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, UK taxation and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, this section is based A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the assumption that a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated on the disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder is: as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those a a citizen of the US, resident for UK tax purposes in the UK: ADSs.
Investors should note that a ruling by the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK has cast doubt on this view, but HMRC have stated that they a a citizen of the US who becomes resident for UK tax purposes will continue to apply their long-standing practice of regarding the in the UK, having ceased to be so resident for a period of five years holder of such ADRs as holding the beneficial interest in the underlying or less and who was resident in the UK for at least four out of the shares.
Investors should note, however, that this is an area of some seven tax years immediately preceding the year of departure, uncertainty that may be subject to further developments in the future.
and who disposed of the shares or ADSs during the period of nonGenerally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not residence a temporary non-resident, unless the shares or ADSs be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty were also acquired during that period, such liability arising on that or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes on page 193. individuals return to the UK: Taxation of dividends a a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of being UK taxation centrally managed and controlled in the UK: or Under current UK tax law no withholding tax will be deducted from a a citizen of the US or a US domestic corporation that carries the dividends we pay.
Shareholders who are within the charge on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch to UK corporation tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends or agency or, in the case of US domestic companies, through we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain a permanent establishment and that has used the shares or ADSs other conditions are met.
It is expected that the dividends we pay would for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has used, generally be exempt.
held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax or agency or permanent establishment.
purposes in the UK, is entitled in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends we pay on our shares or ADSs and Under the treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US and US federal income taxation as required by the terms of the treaty.
However, the treaty provides that Subject to the passive foreign investment company PFIC rules individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US and who have described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income taxation been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding the or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs will be taxable to the holder at the reduced rate normally applicable not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time to long-term capital gains provided that certain requirements are met.
of the disposition but also in that other country although, in respect Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually is a temporary non-resident.
or constructively receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the US federal income taxation dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
or otherwise disposes of our shares or ADSs generally will recognise In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the to be included in income will be the US dollar value of the pound difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and sterling payments made determined at the spot pound sterling the holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares US dollar rate on the date the dividends are received by the US holder or ADSs.
This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
if the US holders holding period in the shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
If dividends received in pounds sterling are converted into US dollars The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the on the day they are received, the US holder generally will not US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses be required to recognise foreign currency gain or loss in respect is subject to limitations.
192 Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2015 Additional tax considerations PFIC rules We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock UK inheritance tax of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
This conclusion An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the sale to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general not individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the be treated as capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated.
An interest to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also was domiciled in the US and was not a UK national.
Dividends received from us would not be eligible for the reduced or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift rate of tax described above under Taxation of Dividends US federal or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit income taxation.
against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
Backup withholding and information reporting UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US holder with respect Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any to shares or ADSs, by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will instrument transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary be reported to the Internal Revenue Service IRS and to the US holder at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale as may be required under applicable regulations.
Backup withholding or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax may apply to these payments if the US holder fails to provide SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price or value of the shares, could also an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt be payable in these circumstances and on issue of our shares to such status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
a person but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT Certain US holders are not subject to backup withholding.
US holders liability is paid.
should consult their tax advisers about these rules and any other A ruling by the European Court of Justice has determined that the reporting obligations that may apply to the ownership or disposition 1.5% SDRT charge on issue of shares to a clearance service is contrary of shares or ADSs, including requirements related to the holding to EU law.
As a result of that ruling, HMRC indicated that where new of certain foreign financial assets.
shares are first issued to a clearance service or to a depositary within the EU, the 1.5% SDRT charge will not be levied.
Subsequently, a decision by the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK extended this ruling to the issue of shares or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer of shares to depositary receipts systems wherever located.
HMRC have stated that they will not seek to appeal this decision and, as such, will no longer seek to impose 1.5% SDRT on the issue of shares or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer of shares to a clearance service or to a depositary, wherever located.
Investors should, however, be aware that this area may be subject to further developments in the future.
No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the UK.
A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer our shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our ADSs will not give rise toSDRT.
