Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Shareholder information Unaudited information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 11 June 2015 Record date for final dividend 12 June 2015 Interim management statement 24 July 2015 Annual general meeting 28 July 2015 Final dividend payment 5 August 2015 Half-year financial results 10 November 2015 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 19 November 2015 Record date for interim dividend 20 November 2015 Interim dividend payment 3 February 2016 Note: Provisional dates.
Dividends Managing your shares via Investor Centre See pages 47 and 129 for details on dividend amount per share.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with Payment of dividends by direct credit online access to information about their investments as well as a facility We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: accounts.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts a update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend on the same day as payment.
A consolidated tax voucher covering payment history: both the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year a update member details and address changes: and is sent to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque.
a register to receive Company communications electronically.
Overseas dividend payments Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing Holders of ordinary shares resident in the Eurozone defined for service to existing shareholders.
this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national currency automatically receive their dividends in euros.
The sterling The service can be obtained at investorcentre.
Shareholders with euro exchange rate is determined by us in accordance with our articles any queries regarding their holding should contact Computershare.
of association up to 13 business days before the payment date.
See page 187 for their contact details.
Holders resident outside the UK and Eurozone automatically receive Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate dividends in pounds sterling but may elect to receive dividends website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and in localcurrency directly into their bank account by registering information about the Company.
for ourregistrars Computershare Global Payments Service.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
Shareholder communications A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary communications from us electronically using email and web-based in USdollars.
The sterling US dollar exchange rate for this purpose communications.
The use of electronic communications, rather is determined by us up to ten New York and London business days than printed paper documents, means information about the beforethe payment date.
Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the See vodafone.
com dividends for further information about dividend added benefit of reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
payments or, alternatively, please contact our registrar or the ADS Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders depositary, as applicable.
See page 187 for their contact information.
registered for electronic communications will be sent an email alert containing a link to the relevant documents.
Dividend reinvestment plan We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire by providing us with an email address.
You can register your email additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf address via our registrar at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact them via the by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
telephone number provided on page 187.
com investor For ADS holders, BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which for further information about this service.
is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
Annual general meeting Our thirty first annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton London Metropole Hotel, 225 Edgware Road, London W2 1JU, on Tuesday 28 July 2015 at 11.00a.
m. The annual general meeting will be transmitted via a live webcast which can be viewed on our website at vodafone.
com agm on the day of the meeting.
Arecording will be available to view after that date.
