Additional Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials information Annual Report 2015 Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general Exchange controls meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict sixmonths of the Companys year end.
or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary Electronic communications shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
The Company has previously passed a resolution allowing it to communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, including making such information available on the Companys website.
Taxation Those shareholders who have positively elected for website As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax communication or are deemed to have consented to receive electronic advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax communication in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 will consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their receive written notification whenever shareholder documentation particular circumstances.
ismade available on the website.
This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, Variation of rights in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that of holders subject to special rules including, for example, US expatriates class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
and former long-term residents of the US and officers of the Company: employees and holders that, directly, indirectly or by attribution, At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the articles hold 5% or more of the Companys voting stock: financial institutions: of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, insurance companies: individual retirement accounts and other except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which tax-deferred accounts: tax-exempt organisations: dealers in securities must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than or currencies: investors that will hold shares or ADSs as part of straddles, one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such hedging transactions or conversion transactions for US federal income quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds tax purposes: investors holding shares or ADSs in connection with shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds: ii any a trade or business conducted outside of the US: or investors whose person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll: and iii each functional currency is not the US dollar.
shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with income tax purposes: or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets a a citizen or resident of the US: of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
a a US domestic corporation: a an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax Limitations on voting and shareholding regardless of its source: or As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the a a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly No shareholder has any securities carrying special rights with regard elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income to control of the Company.
Documents on display If an entity treated as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes The Company is subject to the information requirements of the holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and with these requirements the Company files its Annual Report the tax treatment of the partnership.
Holders that are entities treated on Form20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes should consult documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms their tax advisers concerning the US federal income tax consequences located at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the to them and their partners of the ownership and disposition of ADSs operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the United by the partnership.
States by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website at sec.
as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations Shareholders can also obtain copies ofthe Companys articles thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws of association from our website at vodafone.
com governance of the UK and the Double Taxation Convention between the US and or fromthe Companys registeredoffice.
the UK the treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Material contracts This section is further based in part upon the representations of the At the date of this Annual Report the Group is not party to any contracts depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement that are considered material to the Groups results or operations and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with except for its US$3.9 billion and 3.9 billion revolving credit facilities its terms.
which are discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the consolidated financial statements.
