Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets Our statement of financial position contains significant intangible assets, mainly in relation to goodwill and licences and spectrum.
Goodwill, which arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of its net assets primarily due to the synergies we expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Licences and spectrum are amortised over the life of the licence.
For further details see Critical accounting judgements in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Group controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment or whenever there is evidence that it may be required.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing exchange rate at each reporting period date.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the incomestatement.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss ondisposal.
Finite lived intangible assets Intangible assets with finite lives are stated at acquisition or development cost, less accumulated amortisation.
The amortisation period and method is reviewed at least annually.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
Licence and spectrum fees Amortisation periods for licence and spectrum fees are determined primarily by reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and whether licences are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of related network services.
Computer software Computer software comprises computer software purchased from third parties as well as the cost of internally developed software.
Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and are probable of producing future economic benefits, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software development employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
Software integral to an item of hardware equipment is classified as property, plant and equipment.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense when they are incurred.
Internally developed software is recognised only if all of the following conditions aremet: a an asset is created that can be separately identified: a it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and a the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life from the date the software is available for use.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, including brands and customer bases, are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement, over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use, on a straight-line basis, with the exception of customer relationships which are amortised on a sum of digits basis.
The amortisation basis adopted for each class of intangible asset reflects the Groups consumption of the economic benefit from that asset.
Licences and spectrum with a net book value of 2,059 million 2014: 3,885 million have been pledged as security against borrowings.
The net book value and expiry dates of the most significant licences are as follows: 2015 2014 Expiry date m m Germany 2016 2020 2025 2,843 3,743 Italy 2018 2021 2029 1,094 1,301 UK 2033 3,050 3,425 India 20152034 3,994 3,885 Qatar 2028 2029 987 945 Netherlands 2016 2029 2030 940 1,188 The remaining amortisation period for each of the licences in the table above corresponds to the expiry date of the respective licence.
A summary of the Groups most significant spectrum licences can be found on page 200.
