Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: a Vodafone Group Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: a the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited Vodafone Group Plcs financial statements comprise: a the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2015: a the Company balance sheet of Vodafone Group Plc as at 31 March 2015: a the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: a the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: a the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: a the reserves and reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds for the year then ended: and a the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 2015 Annual Report Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
97 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 220 million which represents 5% of a three year average of adjusted operating profit AOP.
We used a three year average given the impact of Project Spring investment refer to pages 6 to 7 in the Annual Report in the current year toensure that the measure is more durable over a period of time.
Materiality We identified eight local operations which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics including UK, Spain, Italy, India, Germany and Vodacom Group Limited.
The scope of work in Spain and Germany included an audit of the complete financial information of Ono and Kabel Deutschland, which were acquired in the current and prior year respectively.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant Audit scope judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
a Taxation matters including a provisioning claim for withholding tax in India and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany.
Areas of a Provisions and contingent liabilities.
focus a Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
98 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation matters The Group operates across a large number of We satisfied ourselves with the design and implementation of controls in respect of jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges by provisioning for withholding tax and the recognition and recoverability of deferred local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the taxassets.
normal course of business including transfer pricing, We used our specialist tax knowledge to gain an understanding of the current status of indirect taxes and transaction-related tax matters.
As at the Indian tax investigation and monitored changes in the disputes by reading external 31 March 2015, the Group has current taxes payable of advice received by the Group, where relevant, to establish that the tax provisions had been 599 million.
appropriately adjusted to reflect the latest external developments.
We have focused on two matters relating to the legal In respect of the deferred tax assets, we assessed the recoverability of losses from a tax claim in respect of withholding tax on the acquisition perspective through performing the following: of Hutchison Essar Limited and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg a understanding how losses arose and where they are located, including to which andGermany.
subgroups they are attributed: Provisioning claim for withholding tax there continues a considering whether the losses can be reversed: to be uncertainty regarding the resolution of the a assessing any restrictions on future use: and legal claim from the Indian authorities in respect of withholding tax on the acquisition of Hutchison a determining whether any of the losses will expire.
In addition we assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 Income Recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in Taxes including: Luxembourg and Germany significant judgement is a understanding the triggers for recognition of deferred tax assets: required in relation to the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of losses in a considering effects of tax planning strategies: and Luxembourg and Germany.
a assessing recoverability of assets against forecast income streams, including reliability Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 of future income projections.
Basis of preparation Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 6 We determined that the recognition of deferred tax assets during the period was Taxation and note 30 Contingent liabilities.
appropriate, and that the recoverability of the deferred tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany is supported by forecast future taxable profits.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 and note 30 to the financial statements, including the enhanced disclosures made in respect of the utilisation period of deferred tax assets.
Carrying value of goodwill Vodafone Group Plc has goodwill of 22,537 million We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification of the Groups CGUs contained within 22 cash-generating units CGUs.
and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the impairment assessment process, including indicators of impairment, noting no significant exceptions.
Impairment charges to goodwill have been recognised in prior periods.
With challenging trading conditions Our procedures included challenging management on the suitability of the impairment continuing in certain territories, particularly in Europe, model and reasonableness of the assumptions, with particular attention paid to the the Groups performance and prospects could be European businesses, through performing the following: impacted increasing the risk that goodwill is impaired.
a benchmarking Vodafones key market-related assumptions in managements valuation For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination models with industry comparators and with assumptions made in the prior years of recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value including revenue and margin trends, capital expenditure on network assets and less costs to sell and value-in-use, requires judgement spectrum, market share and customer churn, foreign exchange rates and discount on the part of management in both identifying and rates, against external data where available, using our valuation expertise: then valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts a testing the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing relevant data are based on managements view of variables such to Board-approved Long-Range Plans: and as future average revenue per user ARPU, average customer numbers and customer churn, timing and a assessing the reliability of managements forecast through a review of actual approval of future capital, spectrum and operating performance against previous forecasts.
expenditure and the most appropriate discount rate.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 4 and note 10 to the Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to Germany, Spain Basis of preparation Critical accounting judgements and Italy.
and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 4 Impairment losses and note 10 Intangible assets.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and consider managements key assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
99 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions and contingent liabilities There are a number of threatened and actual legal, In responding to this area of focus, our procedures included the following: regulatory and tax cases against the Group.
There is a a testing key controls surrounding litigation, regulatory and tax procedures: high level of judgement required in estimating the level of provisioning required.
a where available, reading external legal opinions obtained by management: Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note a meeting with regional and local management and reading of subsequent 1 Basis of preparation Critical accounting judgements Group correspondence: and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 17 a discussing open matters with the Group litigation, regulatory, general counsel and Provisions and note 30 Contingent liabilities.
tax teams: a assessing and challenging managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and a circularising where appropriate of relevant third party legal representatives and direct discussion with them regarding certain material cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, while noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal, regulatory and tax matters, we determined the level of provisioning at 31 March 2015 to be appropriate and at a level consistent with previous periods.
We validated the completeness and appropriateness of the related disclosures through assessing that the disclosure of the uncertainties in note 17 and note 30 to the financial statements was sufficient.
Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems There is an inherent risk around the accuracy of In responding to this area of focus we instructed the eight local operations in Group audit revenue recorded given the complexity of systems scope to undertake consistent audit procedures.
Our audit approach included controls and the impact of changing pricing models to revenue testing and substantive procedures covering, in particular: recognition tariff structures, incentive arrangements, a testing the IT environment in which billing, rating and other relevant support systems discounts etc.. reside, including the change control procedures in place around systems that bill The application of revenue recognition accounting material revenue streams: standards is complex and involves a number of key a testing the end-to-end reconciliation from business support systems to billing and judgements and estimates.
rating systems to the general ledger.
This testing included validating material journals Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report and processed between the billing system and general ledger: note1 Basis of preparation Critical accounting a performing tests on the accuracy of customer bill generation on a sample basis and judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
testing of a sample of the credits and discounts applied to enterprise customer bills: and a testing cash receipts for a sample of customers back to the customer invoice.
We also considered the application of the Groups accounting policies to amounts billed and the accounting implications of new business models to check that Group accounting policies were appropriate for these models and were followed.
Based on our work, we noted no significant issues on the accuracy of revenue recorded in the year.
Significant one-off transactions Accounting for acquisitions and other forms of In responding to this area of focus, our procedures included the following: collaboration, such as network shares, requires the a evaluating managements accounting papers on how IFRSs have been applied to the exercise of judgements over the accounting and acquisition accounting for Ono: disclosure for the transactions.
a evaluating the work performed by managements valuation experts including the The accounting for the acquisition of Ono required a recognition of 777 million of identified intangible assets: and significant amount of management estimation and audit effort.
Key judgements relate to the purchase a challenging management on the identification and valuation of tangible and price allocation to the assets and liabilities acquired and intangible assets.
fair value and accounting policy adjustments.
Based on our procedures, we noted no significant issues and are satisfied with the Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 associated acquisition accounting.
Basis of preparation Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 28 We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 28 to the financial Acquisitions and disposals.
100 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Capitalisation and asset lives There are a number of areas where management We tested controls in place over the fixed asset cycle, evaluated the appropriateness of judgement impacts the carrying value of property, plant capitalisation policies, performed tests of details on costs capitalised and assessed the and equipment, software intangible assets and their timeliness of the transfer of assets in the course of construction.
There were no exceptions respective depreciation profiles.
These include: noted from our testing.
a the decision to capitalise or expense costs: Our detailed testing on the application of the asset life review identified no issues.
In performing these procedures, we challenged the judgements made by management a the annual asset life review including the impact including: of changes in the Groups strategy: and a the nature of underlying costs capitalised as part of the cost of the network roll-out: a the timeliness of the transfer from assets in the course of construction.
a the appropriateness of asset lives applied in the calculation of depreciation: and a in assessing the need for accelerated depreciation given the network modernisation Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 programme in place across Europe under Project Spring.
Basis of preparation Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 10 No significant issues were noted from our testing.
Intangible assets and note 11 Property, plant and equipment.
IT systems and controls As our audit sought to place a high level of reliance on We conducted detailed end-to-end walkthroughs of the finance processes, identifying the Groups IT systems and key internal controls upon applicable finance systems and assessing the design effectiveness of the key internal which management rely, during our first year as the controls.
As part of this, we evaluated the consistency of the key internal controls across Groups auditors a high proportion of the overall audit in-scope local operations.
We then conducted testing of the operating effectiveness of effort was in this area.
A large proportion of this work these controls to obtain evidence that they operated throughout the full year.
was conducted at the Groups Shared Service Centres Where systems changed during the year, we tested IT general controls in both the legacy where finance transactions are processed.
and new applications and the completeness and accuracy of any data migration.
Our work focused on key changes to systems during In response to both the prior year issues, and control enhancements made during the the year including the ongoing consolidation of the year, we performed the following: key financial ledgers onto a common ERP system and replacements to underlying billing systems in several a General ledger accounts local markets.
a evaluated the enhancements to policies and procedures: In the prior year, weaknesses in certain privileged user a tested the operating effectiveness of balance sheet review controls: access controls at the IT infrastructure level and balance sheet controls had been identified: our work included a performed substantive testing of key balance sheet reconciliations: and an evaluation of enhancements made by management a utilised our data technology to extract and analyse the population of journals across in these areas.
the Group, and tested manual journals as part of our work on possible management Our work also focused on other control enhancements override of controls.
undertaken by management during the current year: a Controls over user access a General ledger accounts enhancements a evaluated user access controls: were made to controls over general ledger accounts including central reconciliation tracking, a tested segregation of duties including assessment of alternative controls and quality control measures and refined policies substantive procedures: and and procedures.
a tested user access rights in relation to the Groups common finance ledger a Controls over user access a detailed review application ERP solution and at the infrastructure level.
of access rights to the Groups common ERP system was conducted by management during the year, with While we identified a number of areas for improvement in controls which we discussed enhancements being made to both ongoing controls with the Audit and Risk Committee, we did not regard any of these as significant in the and certain compliance focused tools being utilised.
context of the Group financial statements.
No control matters identified represented a material weakness in internal control.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report.
As a result of our work on controls we updated our planned audit approach as follows: a we extended our controls testing to provide assurance over alternative controls and the completeness and accuracy of management information used in other key controls: and a where the enhanced controls did not operate effectively for the whole year, we updated our planned year end audit approach to include a greater level of detailed testing of transactions, particularly in relation to balance sheet reconciliations.
101 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls including those performed at the Groups shared service centres, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Our planning procedures included a review of the predecessor auditors working papers at the Group level and at locations in scope for full Group reporting to obtain an understanding of the audit work performed on comparative balances.
We also determined the type of work that needed to be performed on the individual financial statement line items, depending on risk assessment and materiality.
The Group operates in 26 countries across two divisions: Europe and AMAP.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the local operations by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those local operations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups local operations vary in size with the eight operations in Group scope UK, Spain, Italy, India, Germany, Vodacom Group Limited, Ono and Kabel Deutschland representing 75% and 78% of the Groups revenue and AOP respectively.
We identified these eight local operations as those that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
The materiality applied by the component auditors in the context of the Group audit ranged from 12 million to 100 million.
These local operations are also subject to audits for local statutory purposes where their local statutory materiality ranges from 2 million to 83 million.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both geographical division and Group levels.
The Group engagement team visited all eight operations in scope for Group reporting during the audit cycle and the lead audit partner attended all eight audit clearance meetings seven in person, one via conference call.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
In addition, audits for local statutory purposes are performed at a further 15 locations.
Where possible, the timing of local statutory audits was accelerated to align to the Group audit timetable, with significant findings reported to the Group engagement team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 220 million Previous auditor in 2014: 250 million.
How we determined it 5% of AOP before tax averaged over three years.
Rationale for benchmark applied We consider this adjusted measure to be a key driver of business value and a focus for shareholders, and used a three year average given the impact of Project Spring investment refer to pages 6 to 7 in the Annual Report in the current year to ensure that the measure is more durable over a period of time.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 94 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
