Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: a the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and a the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 72 to 73 with respect to internal control and risk management system and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
a materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or a apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or a otherwise misleading.
a the statement given by the Directors on page 94, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken from this responsibility.
as a wholeto be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: and a the section of the Annual Report on page 63, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated from this responsibility.
by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or a the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
