EXPLANATORY NOTES Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors of a public company to lay its annual report before the company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the Audited Financial Statements, the Auditors Report, the Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an Ordinary Resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2015.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 49 to 64 of the Annual Report and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 51 to 55 and which is included in the Directors Remuneration Report this year for information purposes only.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 35.09p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2015.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 19 February 2016 to shareholders on the register at 6.00pm on 5 February 2016.
Resolutions 4 to 12 Re-election and election of Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, any Director appointed by the Board during the year is required to retire from office at the first annual general meeting following his or her appointment.
Such Director is eligible to stand for election at that meeting.
Martin Court, Andrew Dougal and Jane Toogood shall each retire at the AGM, having joined the Board since the date of the Companys last annual general meeting.
All three shall stand for election by the shareholders for the first time.
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors shall also retire from office at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Each of Resolutions 4 to 12 shall be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
The Board considers each non-executive Director to be independent and the Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on page 43, each Director standing for election or re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
The biographical details, skills, and experience of each Director standing for election or re-election are set out below and on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Report.
Mr Larry Pentz, Chairman Mr Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in 2008 and as Chairman in October 2014.
Larry brings extensive and wide ranging experience in developing strategy for and successfully leading international growth businesses in the chemical sector.
He has been instrumental in the acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst and chemical companies for Johnson Matthey plc, a UK listed FTSE 100 company, where he currently holds board level responsibility for the Process Technologies and Fine Chemical Divisions.
Larry brings a wealth of directly relevant skills and experience to Victrex, including detailed knowledge of the chemicals industry, boardroom experience and leadership skills in a major UK listed chemical peer.
Dr Pamela Kirby, Senior Independent Director Dr Pamela Kirby brings over 30 years of wide ranging experience in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and has specific insight and experience in growing and developing medical and pharma based businesses.
She was appointed to the Victrex Board in 2011 and as Senior Independent Director in November 2014.
In addition to detailed knowledge of the international healthcare sector, Pamela has in-depth experience of strategic planning and marketing and extensive boardroom experience.
She was previously non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and Scynexis Inc listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange and non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
She is currently, non-executive director of DCC plc, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc.
and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Mr Patrick fide Smedt, Non-executive Director Mr Patrick fide Smedt is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was appointed to the Board in 2008.
His breadth of international experience and knowledge of market and geographical development is a key strength which he brings to the Board of Victrex, which has exposure to over 40 geographies.
He has over 23 years of experience with Microsoft, culminating in his appointment as Chairman of Microsoft Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Patrick has extensive boardroom experience being the Senior Independent Director of Morgan Sindall Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director atNexinto Holdings Ltd, Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited and Michael Page International plc.
Victrex plc 102 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Resolutions 4 to 12 Re-election and election of Directors continued Mr Andrew Dougal, Non-executive Director Andrew Dougal is Chairman of the Audit Committee and was appointed to the Board in March 2015.
Andrew is a Chartered Accountant and brings a wealth of experience to the Board, from a lengthy executive and non-executive career of over 35 years in industrial, manufacturing and services companies.
Andrew is a non-executive director and Chair of the Audit Committee at Carillion plc.
He was previously aNon Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of both Taylor Woodrow Plc and Taylor Wimpey Plc and a NonExecutive Director of BPB Plc and Premier Farnell plc.
Formerly, Andrew served as Chief Executive of Hanson plc.
theinternational building materials group, following its demerger from Hanson, the AngloAmerican conglomerate, where he was Finance Director and previously held a number of senior roles in general management and finance.
He is a member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland ICAS and Chair of its Technical Policy Board.
Ms Jane Toogood, Non-executive Director Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number of senior marketing, sales and business development roles within the global chemical industry, including ICI and Uniqema and held a Non-Executive Director role with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation Trust.
Jane is Senior Vice President Marketing and New Business Development, Polyolefins, for Borealis.
Mr David Hummel, Chief Executive Mr David Hummel has led Victrex as Chief Executive since the MBO of Victrex from ICI in 1993.
He has extensive experience of the high performance polymers market, having worked for GE Plastics and Diamond Shamrock, and led the US sales operation for ICI Advanced Materials prior to Victrexs formation in 1993.
David has strong experience of strategy and market development, having led Victrex on its journey from a small niche polymers company to its position today as a focused world leader in high performance polymer solutions across five core markets.
Mr Tim Cooper, Executive Director Mr Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in October 2012 and is the Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions, a position he has held since joining Victrex in 2010.
Tim has over 30 years of international business management, commercial and manufacturing experience.
His prior experience includes leadership positions such as Group Managing Director of Umeco Composites Process Materials, Managing Director of Tellermate plc and of the Avery Berkel group.
Previously Tim held a number of sales and marketing positions at BP and Land Rover.
Ms Louisa Burdett, Group Finance Director Ms Louisa Burdett was appointed to the Board in 2014 as Group Finance Director.
Louisa, who is a qualified Chartered Accountant, brings a wealth of financial experience from her career to date and also has significant pharmaceutical experience, relevant for Victrexs medical business Invibio, including in emerging geographies.
She was formerly ChiefFinancial Officer at Optos plc and The Financial Times Group.
She has also held roles at Chep Europe, a division ofBrambles Ltd, the Australian-listed pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisa also has in-depth corporate finance experience, having worked as an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank.
Mr Martin Court, Executive Director Martin was appointed to the Board in April 2015, and continues in the position of Managing Director of Invibio, Victrexs medical business, a position Martin has held since joining Victrex in February 2013.
Martin has significant proven international experience in the medical and high performance materials & chemicals industries, including with Cytec Industries, and in a number of senior roles at both ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumni, holds a doctorate in the field ofsurface chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng degree in mineral technology from the Imperial College ofScience and Technology.
Resolutions 13 and 14 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report is laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
It is, therefore, proposed that KPMG LLP be re-appointed auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Resolution 14 is an Ordinary Resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine KPMGs remuneration.
Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this Ordinary Resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or 31March 2017, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by the Investment Association, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares up to an amount of approximately one third of the existing share capital as at 7 December 2015, plus, in the case of a rights issue only, a further amount up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 7December 2015.
Victrex plc 103 Annual Report 2015 EXPLANATORY NOTES CONTINUED Resolution 16 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
Otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, this special resolution will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash up to a nominal amount of 42,725, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 7 December 2015, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted ona non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 31March2017, if sooner.
Resolution 17 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 17 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 7 December 2015 and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 7 December 2015, options over a total of 1,123,271 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.31% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 7 December 2015.
It would represent 1.46% of the issued Ordinary Share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full that date.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 31 March 2017, if sooner.
Resolution 18 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice This special resolution renews an authority given at last years annual general meeting and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006 Act.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company notes the new notice period provision in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code which recommends atleast 14 working days notice to be given for all general meetings other than annual general meetings.
Insofar as itisappropriate to do so, the Company intends to comply with this Code provision in the same way that it currently complies with the 20 working days notice provision applicable to annual general meetings.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility ismerited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
