Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 31.
Related party transactions The Group has a number of related parties including joint arrangements and associates, pension schemes and Directors and Executive Committee members see note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements, note 26 Post employment benefits and note 24 Directors and key management compensation.
Transactions with joint arrangements and associates Related party transactions with the Groups joint arrangements and associates primarily comprise fees for the use of products and services including network airtime and access charges, fees for the provision of network infrastructure and cash pooling arrangements.
No related party transactions have been entered into during the year which might reasonably affect any decisions made by the users of these consolidated financial statements except as disclosed below.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Sales of goods and services to associates 32 231 238 Purchase of goods and services from associates 85 109 97 Sales of goods and services to joint arrangements 6 12 27 Purchase of goods and services from joint arrangements 566 570 568 1 Net interest income receivable from joint arrangements 79 75 33 Trade balances owed: by associates 3 3 21 to associates 4 3 20 by joint arrangements 182 82 260 to joint arrangements 48 170 48 1 Other balances owed by joint arrangements 61 57 1,065 1 Other balances owed to joint arrangements 54 63 Note: 1 Amounts arise primarily through Vodafone Italy, Vodafone Hutchison Australia, Indus Towers and Cornerstone.
Interest is paid in line with market rates.
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures are disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Transactions with Directors other than compensation During the three years ended 31 March 2015, and as of 19 May 2015, neither any Director nor any other executive officer, nor any associate of any Director or any other executive officer, was indebted to the Company.
During the three years ended 31 March 2015, and as of 19 May 2015, the Company has not been a party to any other material transaction, or proposed transactions, in which any member of the key management personnel including Directors, any other executive officer, senior manager, any spouse or relative of any of the foregoing or any relative of such spouse had or was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
Dividends received from associates are disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Principal subsidiaries Our subsidiaries are located around the world and each contributes to the profits, assets and cash flow of the Group.
We have a large number of subsidiaries and so, for practical reasons, only the principal subsidiaries at 31 March 2015 are detailed below.
Accounting policies A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Companys returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
