Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation This section describes the critical accounting judgements that management has identified as having a potentially material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements and sets out our significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is generally applicable to a specific note to the accounts, the policy is described within that note.
We have also detailed below the new accounting pronouncements that we will adopt in future years and our current view of the impact they will have on our financial reporting.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
A discussion on the Groups critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed below.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period: they are recognised in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Vodafone Group Plc is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales registration number 1833679.
IFRS requires the Directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
In determining and applying accounting policies, Directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Groups reported financial position, results or cash flows: it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate.
Management has identified accounting estimates and assumptions relating to revenue recognition, taxation, business combinations and goodwill, joint arrangements, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, post employment benefits, provisions and contingent liabilities and impairment that it considers to be critical due to their impact on the Groups financial statements.
These critical accounting judgements, assumptions and related disclosures have been discussed with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee see page 64.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Revenue recognition Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements where more than one good or service is provided to the customer, customer consideration is allocated between the goods and services using relative fair value principles.
The fair values determined for deliverables may impact the timing of the recognition of revenue.
Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a stand-alone basis after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
Gross versus net presentation When the Group sells goods or services as a principal, income and payments to suppliers are reported on a gross basis in revenue and operating costs.
If the Group sells goods or services as an agent, revenue and payments to suppliers are recorded in revenue on a net basis, representing the margin earned.
Whether the Group is considered to be the principal or an agent in the transaction depends on analysis by management of both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners: such judgements impact the amount of reported revenue and operating expenses but do not impact reported assets, liabilities or cash flows.
Taxation The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain matters where the tax impact is uncertain until a conclusion is reached with the relevant tax authority or through a legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
Resolving tax issues can take many years as it is not always within the control of the Group and often depends on the efficiency of legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting estimation and judgement include the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses in Luxembourg, Germany, Spain, India and Turkey and capital allowances in the United Kingdom.
The recognition of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of tax losses, is based upon whether it is probable that there will be sufficient and suitable taxable profits in the relevant legal entity or tax group against which to utilise the assets in the future.
Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits.
The Group assesses the availability of future taxable profits using the same undiscounted five year forecasts for the Groups operations as are used in the Groups value in use calculations see Impairment reviews below.
Where tax losses are forecast to be recovered beyond the five year period, the availability of taxable profits is assessed using the cash flows and long-term growth rates used for the value in use calculations.
109 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued The cash flows inherent in these forecasts include the unsystematic risks of operating in the telecommunications business including the potential impacts of changes in the market structure, trends in customer pricing, the costs associated with the acquisition and retention of customers, future technological evolutions and potential regulatory changes, such as our ability to acquire and or renew spectrum licences.
Changes in the assumptions which underpin the Groups forecasts could have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits and could have a significant impact on the period over which the deferred tax asset would be recovered.
The Group only considers substantively enacted tax laws when assessing the amount and availability of tax losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
See note 6 Taxation to the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations and goodwill When the Group completes a business combination, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired then the incremental amount paid is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then the difference is recorded as a gain in the income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets discussed below and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the subsequent results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
On transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to business combinations completed by the Group between incorporation and 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill recorded before the date of transition to IFRS amounted to 78,753 million.
If the Group had elected to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill, licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition.
See note 28 Acquisitions and disposals to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Joint arrangements The Group participates in a number of joint arrangements where control of the arrangement is shared with one or more other parties.
A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or as a joint venture, depending on managements assessment of the legal form and substance of the arrangement.
The classification can have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis, whereas the Groups investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown within single line items in the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement respectively.
See note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements to the consolidated financial statements.
Finite lived intangible assets Other intangible assets include amounts spent by the Group acquiring licences and spectrum, customer bases and brands and the costs of purchasing and developing computer software.
Where intangible assets are acquired through business combinations and no active market for the assets exists, the fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset.
Estimates relating to the future cash flows and discount rates used may have a material effect on the reported amounts of finite lived intangible assets.
Estimation of useful life The useful life over which intangible assets are amortised depends on managements estimate of the period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
Reducing the useful life will increase the amortisation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Useful lives are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is discussed below.
Licence and spectrum fees The estimated useful life is generally the term of the licence unless there is a presumption of renewal at negligible cost: this is adjusted if necessary, for example taking into account the impact of any expected changes in technology.
Customer bases The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Capitalised software For computer software, the useful life is based on managements view, considering historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their life such as changes in technology.
The useful life will not exceed the duration of a licence.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment represents 21.7% 2014: 18.8% of the Groups total assets: estimates and assumptions made may have a material impact on their carrying value and related depreciation charge.
See note 11 Property, plant and equipment to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Estimation of useful life The depreciation charge for an asset is derived using estimates of its expected useful life and expected residual value, which are reviewed annually.
Increasing an assets expected life or residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Management determines the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on experience with similar assets and taking into account other relevant factors such as any expected changes in technology.
The useful life of network infrastructure is assumed not to exceed the duration of related operating licences unless there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for the asset.
110 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Post employment benefits Management judgement is exercised when determining the Groups liabilities and expenses arising for defined benefit pension schemes.
Management is required to make assumptions regarding future rates of inflation, salary increases, discount rates and longevity of members, each of which may have a material impact on the defined benefit obligations that are recorded.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis, are included in note 26 Post employment benefits to the consolidated financial statements.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 30 Contingent liabilities to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary to assess the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of any financial settlement.
The inherent uncertainty of such matters means that actual losses may materially differ from estimates.
Impairment reviews IFRS requires management to perform impairment tests annually for indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing requires management to judge whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows that they generate.
Calculating the net present value of the future cash flows requires assumptions to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters including managements expectations of: a growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation: a timing and amount of future capital expenditure: a long-term growth rates: and a appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Management prepares formal five year forecasts for the Groups operations, which are used to estimate their value in use.
In certain developing markets ten year forecasts are used if it is considered that the fifth year of a forecast is not indicative of expected long-term future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For operations where five year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: a the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and a the long-term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten estimated by management.
For operations where ten year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: a the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and a the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence reported assets and profits or losses.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis, are included in note 4 Impairment losses to the consolidated financial statements.
Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Accounting convention The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries controlled by the Company see note 32 Principal subsidiaries to the consolidated financial statements and joint operations that are subject to joint control see note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the parent companys functional currency and the presentation currency of the Group.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the respective functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences are recognised in the income statement and other 111 changes in carrying amount are recognised inequity.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified as available-for-sale, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are expressed in sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period date.
Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative amount previously recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The net foreign exchange gain recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 273 million 31 March 2014: 1,688 million loss: 2013: 117 million loss.
The net gains and net losses are recorded within operating profit 2015: 8 million charge: 2014: 16 million charge: 2013: 21 million charge, other income and expense and non-operating income and expense 2015: 1 million credit: 2014: 1,493 million charge: 2013: 1 million charge, investment and financing income 2015: 276 million credit: 2014: 180 million charge: 2013: 91 million charge and income tax expense 2015: 4 million credit: 2014: 1 million credit: 2013: 4 million charge.
The foreign exchange gains and losses included within other income and expense and non-operating income and expense arise on the disposal of interests in joint ventures, associates and investments from the recycling of foreign exchange gains previously recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
New accounting pronouncements adopted on 1 April 2014 On 1 April 2014 the Group adopted the following new accounting policies to comply with amendments to IFRS.
The accounting pronouncements, none of which are considered by the Group as significant on adoption, are: a Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: a Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting: a Improvements to IFRS 20102012 cycle.
All the amendments were early adopted by the Group except an amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which will be adopted on 1 April 2015: and a IFRIC 21 Levies.
New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on 1 April 2015 The following pronouncements which are potentially relevant to the Group have been issued by the IASB are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and have been endorsed for use in the EU: a Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions: a Improvements to IFRS 20102012 cycle amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments: and a Improvements to IFRS 20112013 cycle.
The Groups financial reporting will be presented in accordance with the new standards above, which are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group, from 1 April 2015.
New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on or after 1 April 2016 On 1 April 2016 the Group will adopt Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IFRS 11, Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38, Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IAS 10 and IAS 28, Improvements to IFRS 20122014 Cycle and Disclosure Initiative, Amendments to IAS 1 which are effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2016 and which have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group is currently confirming the impacts of the above new pronouncements on its results, financial position and cash flows, which are not expected to be material.
112 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in May 2015: although it is effective for accounting periods beginning on or before 1 January 2017, the IASB has proposed to defer the mandatory adoption date by one year.
IFRS 15 has not yet been adopted by the EU.
IFRS 15 will have a material impact on the Groups reporting of revenue and costs as follows: a IFRS 15 will require the Group to identify deliverables in contracts with customers that qualify as performance obligations.
The transaction price receivable from customers must be allocated between the Groups performance obligations under the contracts on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
Currently revenue allocated to deliverables is restricted to the amount that is receivable without the delivery of additional goods or services: this restriction will no longer be applied under IFRS 15.
The primary impact on revenue reporting will be that when the Group sells subsidised devices together with airtime service agreements to customers, revenue allocated to equipment and recognised when control of the device passes to the customer will increase and revenue recognised as services are delivered will reduce.
a Under IFRS 15, certain incremental costs incurred in acquiring a contract with a customer will be deferred on the balance sheet and amortised as revenue is recognised under the related contract: this will generally lead to the later recognition of charges for some commissions payable to third party dealers and employees.
a Certain costs incurred in fulfilling customer contracts will be deferred on the balance sheet under IFRS 15 and recognised as related revenue is recognised under the contract.
Such deferred costs are likely to relate to the provision of deliverables to customers that do not qualify as performance obligations and for which revenue is not recognised: currently such costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these and other accounting changes that will arise under IFRS 15: however, the changes highlighted above are expected to have a material impact on the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of financial position.
It is expected that the Group will adopt IFRS 15 on 1 April 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted but has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The standard will impact the classification and measurement of the Groups financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures.
The changes to recognition and measurement of financial instruments and changes to hedge accounting rules are not currently considered likely to have any major impact on the Groups current accounting treatment or hedging activities.
The Group will not consider early adoption of IFRS 9 until the standard has been endorsed by the EU which is currently expected in the second half of 2015.
