WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with ofthe Group: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Strategic report and the Directors report which the European Union, and the parent company financial statements incorporates the management report includes a fair review in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting of the development and performance of the business and the Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable position of the Group, together with a description of the principal law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors risks and uncertainties that it faces: and have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the this Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they balanced and understandable, and provides the information are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of Groups performance, business model and strategy.
the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, thedirectors are required to: By order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply Stephen Clarke them consistently: Group Chief Executive make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Robert Moorhead and prudent: Chief Financial officer and Chief Operating officer state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 15 October 2015 IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company financial statements respectively: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
indd 56 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach Our opinion Overview Materiality In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : Overall Group materiality: 6.0m which represents five per cent of profit before tax.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2015 and of its profit and cash ows for the year Audit scope then ended: WH Smith PLC comprises two operating segments, High Street and Travel, and one central function.
Within the two operating have been properly prepared in accordance with International segments there are 16 entities, 13 of which are UK and Ireland Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the based and the other three are in France, Qatar and Australia.
European Union: and We performed full scope audits on the UK, Ireland and Channel have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Island entities of the two operating segments.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted What we have audited for 98 per cent of profit before tax and the entities where we The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and performed full scope audits or specic audit procedures Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: accounted for 97 per cent of revenue.
the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 August 2015: Areas of focus Recognition of supplier income.
the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: Inventory valuation.
the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Impairment of store assets.
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then Property-related provisions.
ended: and Pension scheme valuation.
the Notes to the financial statements, which include a Taxation.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
indd 57 23 11 2015 15:56 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC CONTINUED The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting identied by our audit.
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Recognition of supplier income Refer to Note 1 c Accounting policies and page 29 for the views Our audit work in respect of supplier income comprised ofthe Audit Committee.
substantive testing of a sample of income recognised in the income statement during the period and testing of accrued and deferred The Group earns supplier income under numerous different amounts in the balance sheet.
The main elements of our work are arrangements with its suppliers.
The arrangements vary in nature considered in more detail below.
and size but include volume based retrospective discounts and payments for space given to marketing campaigns.
Supplier income Income statement testing is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales and is earned over We requested conrmations directly from a number of different the period of the contractual agreements with individual suppliers.
suppliers, in respect of a sample of supplier income transactions.
The total income recognised is therefore based on the expected The conrmations allowed us to evaluate whether the income had entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under each been appropriately recognised in the period.
were not received, we performed alternative procedures including agreement to contracts and cash receipts.
From the work we The amount of supplier income recognised in the year resulted from performed, we noted that accounting for these amounts did not mainly high volume, low value transactions for agreements such as require significant levels of judgement or estimation.
volume based retrospective discounts and payments for guaranteed in-store space dedicated to product and required limited judgement Where the period of an agreement spans accounting periods, or estimation in determining the amount that the Group is entitled income is recognised based on forecasts for expected sales to as the majority of volume based agreements are based on or purchase volumes, informed by current and historic historical sales as opposed to forecast volumes.
Our focus for all performance.
No significant issues were identied through the types of supplier income was therefore whether an agreement for testing performed.
the income recognised existed, whether income was recognised in We also analysed supplier income by type recognised each month accordance with the agreement and whether it was recognised in and compared it to the previous period to identify whether there the correct period.
were any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of supplier income recognised in each period.
No unusual trends were identied.
Balance sheet testing In the sample of conrmations detailed above, we included requests for the accrued balance at the year end to also be confirmed.
We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further evidence to support the timing of the recognition of supplier income and the accrued and deferred balances at year end.
Cut-off work involved testing a sample of supplier income amounts by reference to documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was appropriate.
Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the year end in order to identify instances of supplier income being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
We tested the recoverability of invoiced supplier income unsettled balances included within trade debtors in Note 15 to the financial statements and where the Group does not have the right of offset against trade creditors.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding supplier income and promotional funding supplier income debtors together with understanding the details of any disputes, and obtained explanations from management to assess whether any provisions were appropriate.
Explanations obtained were deemed satisfactory and supported the year-end balance sheet position.
indd 58 23 11 2015 15:56 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Inventory valuation Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We attended a sample of stock counts performed by the Group accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty during the year across High Street and Travel stores and and page 29 for the views of the Audit Committee.
In addition to performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of the count controls in operation Inventory consists of a number of product categories including at each site.
We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts books, news and magazines, impulse, stationery, travel essentials performed by management and third parties throughout the and digital.
A large proportion of stock is supplied through sale or period to assess the level of count variances.
As a result of return arrangements including the majority of books, newspapers these procedures we obtained evidence over the accuracy of the and magazines and therefore these are considered to be lower risk quantities of inventory held at the balance sheet date.
than stock acquired through rm purchases such as stationery.
We tested the shrinkage assumptions determined by the count Inventory is initially valued using a weighted average cost method.
procedures by comparing them to historical data.
The historical Provisions are then recognised against inventory for estimated data included the results of the previous counts at each location, losses related to shrinkage and slow moving or obsolete inventory.
and our analytical procedures did not identify any significant unusual uctuations in the data.
The valuation of inventory was focused on because of the judgements made by management when assessing the level of The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental provisions required.
In calculating the provision for slow moving percentage to the period-end stock levels, with this judgement or obsolete inventory, an assessment of expected future sales of being informed by historical data on the levels of obsolescence individual product lines is performed by management, taking into as well as managements view of the current stock prole and account the product category and the level of risk of obsolescence.
forecast sales by product line.
We assessed this provision by checking the accuracy of the historical data and the explanations Inventory is counted by the Group on a cyclical basis throughout the provided by management noting no issues.
year, rather than in full at the period-end, and as such the shrinkage provision at 31 August 2015 which is based on historical shrinkage rates contains a degree of estimation.
Impairment review of store assets Refer to Note 1 o Accounting policies for the directors disclosure Our audit work included obtaining managements impairment on the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation assessment and discussing the basis for their decision whether uncertainty and Notes 13 and 14 other intangible assets and ornot to impair store assets.
We agreed individual store trading performance to underlying As at 31 August 2015 management assessed the Groups store records including trading data and confirmed that those that were assets comprising leasehold improvements and xtures and loss making were appropriately impaired where an improvement in ttings for indication of impairment.
The economic and sector results could not be expected, and this testing did not highlight any trends facing the Group may adversely impact the recoverable significant issues.
value of assets used within the store portfolio which is considered We also examined the results for all stores to check that to be a triggering event for impairment review.
managements identication of loss making stores was complete.
Management considers each store to be a cash generating unit This did not identify any further stores requiring impairment to CGU and has performed a review of the trading results of be recognised.
Where a store is loss making and is not expectedto return to profitability in the near future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio as set out in Note 14 property, plant and equipment.
We focused on this area because of the sales and cost pressure that could mean further impairment of the store assets is needed.
indd 59 23 11 2015 15:56 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC CONTINUED AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Property-related provisions Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We obtained managements assessment of those properties accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty requiring provisions and gained an understanding of the and page 29 for the views of the Audit Committee.
rationale behind the provision recognised including the basis for the calculations.
We agreed a sample of the properties to Given the long history of WHSmith, the Group has an extensive underlying documents including lease agreements and written property portfolio of both existing and former WHSmith properties communications from third parties for onerous lease provisions.
now sublet or vacant held under operating leases, which requires In doing so, we agreed the costs being incurred by the Group and the directors to make significant judgements and estimates relating any amounts being received as income from lessees where the to the need to provide for dilapidation costs and onerous leases Group is sub-letting properties at a shortfall.
when the store is making losses or when stores are earmarked for closure.
These judgements include assessing a number of factors For dilapidations provisions, we compared managements including duration of the lease, estimations of costs and future estimates to either correspondence of amounts to be paid where income potential and as such, was an area of focus for us.
stores have been vacated, or in the case of stores yet to be vacated, historical amounts incurred by the Group for similar stores previously vacated and confirmed that managements estimates were in line with previous experience or were supported by communication from landlords or property consultants.
We performed an independent assessment of whether provisions were required by examining the schedule of leases and comparing these to the individual stores contribution.
The work we performed indicated that management have sufficient provisions held for property matters at 31 August 2015.
Pension scheme valuation Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We examined the pension assumptions, including discount accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty rates, salary increases, ination, and mortality, utilising our and Note 4 Retirement benefit obligations and page 29 for the views specialist knowledge of pensions.
We considered and challenged of the Audit Committee.
the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions comparing the discount and ination rates used to our internally developed The Group has two dened benefit pension plans which comprise benchmark ranges, nding them to be within an acceptable range.
total plan assets of 1,162m and total pension liabilities of 948m.
The valuation of the schemes liabilities requires a significant level of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions including ination, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the position as disclosed in the Note 4 of the financial statements.
We focused on this area because of the impact of the judgements inherent in the actuarial assumptions involved in the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
Taxation Refer to Note 1 o Accounting policies and page 29 for the views We performed detailed testing of the Group tax charge and ofthe Audit Committee.
There is a level of uncertainty regarding the tax treatment of certain We examined external evidence to support managements position exposures relating to current and previous years which requires regarding certain exposures.
management to apply their best estimate of the likely outcome.
We found that the judgements made by management were We focused on this area because of the judgemental nature of consistent with our views and the audit evidence we had obtained.
provisions recognised and their potential impact on the tax charge in the income statement.
indd 60 23 11 2015 15:56 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 How we tailored the audit scope OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Consistency of other information enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Companies Act 2006 opinions statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic In our opinion: structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements WH Smith PLC comprises two operating segments, High Street are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and and Travel, and one central function.
Within the two operating segments there are 16 entities, 13 of which are UK and Ireland the information given in the Corporate governance statement based and three are overseas in France, Qatar and Australia.
set out as set out on pages 26 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital We performed full scope audits on the UK, Ireland and Channel structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Island entities of the two operating segments.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, for 98per cent of profit before tax and the entities where we inour opinion: performed full scope audits or specic audit procedures accounted for 97 per cent of revenue.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to Materiality materially inconsistent with the report arising from The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of information in the audited financial this responsibility.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements: or These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to apparently materially incorrect based determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent on, or materially inconsistent with, our of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement knowledge of the Group acquired in the line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of course of performing our audit: or misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
the statement given by the directors on We have no Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality page 29, in accordance with provision exceptions to for the financial statements as a whole as follows: C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance report arising from Overall Group materiality 6.0m.
Code the Code, that they consider this responsibility.
How we determined it Five per cent of profit before tax.
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable Rationale for We believe that profit before tax and provides the information necessary benchmarkapplied is the primary measure used by for members to assess the Groups the shareholders in assessing performance, business model and the performance of the Group, strategy is materially inconsistent with and is a generally accepted our knowledge of the Group acquired in auditing benchmark.
the course of performing our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them the section of the Annual Report on pages We have no misstatements identied during our audit above 300,000 as well 28 to 31, as required by provision C. 3.8 exceptions to as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted of the Code, describing the work of the report arising from reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit Committee does not appropriately this responsibility.
address matters communicated by us to Going concern the Audit Committee.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
indd 61 23 11 2015 15:56 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC CONTINUED Adequacy of information and explanations received We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to procedures or a combination of both.
report arising from this responsibility.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Directors remuneration in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you audited financial statements and to identify any information that is if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the arising from this responsibility.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Corporate governance statement or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you OTHER MATTER if, in our opinion, a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2015 and on the from this responsibility.
information in the Directors remuneration report that is described Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the as having been audited.
Corporate governance statement relating to the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor having performed our review.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS London, UK AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors 15 October 2015 As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
