Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Our charities T he Costa Foundation G reat Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity We dont just make coffee: we make a difference Raise a smile and help a child We are committed to looking after coffeegrowers and In May 2012, Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants chose that is why we established the Costa Foundation in 2007.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity as Originally it worked under the registration of Charities Trust, its longterm charity partner.
an independently registered charity with the UK Charity Commission.
In 2012 the Costa Foundation registered Each year, Great Ormond Street Hospital responds to as a standalone charity.
over 240,000 patient visits from children all over the UK who suffer from rare, complex and often life The Costa Foundation was set up to give something threatening conditions.
back to coffeegrowing communities and since 2008, we have committed to 63 schools or school projects in The charitys mission is to support the hospitals work Colombia, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Honduras, and the very special children it cares for.
The hospital is Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda and Vietnam.
At the date in the process of redeveloping and replacing some of its of this Report, ten projects are still under construction oldest clinical buildings so that families can benefit from and seven projects have been approved and are at world class care in 21st century facilities and have more the planning stage with committed funding in place.
space to be together at the bedside.
The Costa Foundations objectives are the relief of In June 2013, we announced that Whitbread Hotels poverty and the advancement of education, health and & Restaurants had pledged 7.5 million towards the environmental protection within coffeegrowing construction of a new clinical building at Great Ormond communities and surrounding areas.
Street Hospital, which is to be called The Premier Inn Clinical Building.
The building will provide more spacious, The money raised through the Costa Foundation has given modern inpatient wards where a parent or carer can thousands of children access to education and ensured that sleep by their childs bedside.
It will contain a new the people who grow coffee receive the longterm support surgery centre, respiratory ward and a specialist ward needed to ensure sustainable and improved futures.
for children with autoimmune disorders, skin conditions and infectious diseases.
In 2014 15 alone we raised over 1.7 million as a result of dedicated fundraising and generous donations.
At the date of this Report we have raised over 4 million We have an aspiration to provide educational facilities towards the 7.5 million target.
Help us to continue the good work by donating: https: donate.
org ?utm source whitbread&utm Help us to continue the good work by donating: medium referral&utm campaign whitbread annual http: www.
com donations report Registered charity number 1147400.
Whitbread Our Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 charities 148 Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London Main photography by George Brooks Board photography by Ian PhillipsMcLaren Printed by Park Communications This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100: process chlorinefree PCF paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC.
Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE www.
