Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors responsibility statement Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping adequate The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy and Accounts in accordance with applicable UK laws and at any time, the financial position of the Company and regulations.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with the directors have prepared the Group financial statements regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the in accordance with International Financial Reporting IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Group and applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps the Company financial statements in accordance with to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
United Kingdom Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and applicable UK law.
The directors are responsible for preparing the strategic report including the corporate governance report, the Under company law, the directors must not approve the directors remuneration report and the directors report financial statements unless they are satisfied that they in accordance with The Companies Act 2006 and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group applicable regulations, including the Listing Rules and and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for Transparency Rules.
A copy of the financial statements of the Group is posted In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors on the Groups website.
The directors are responsible for the are required to: maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report included on the website.
Information published on the Groups select suitable accounting policies in accordance with website is accessible in many countries with different legal IAS 8 Accounting Policies, changes in accounting requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation estimates and errors, and then apply them consistently: and dissemination of financial statements may differ from present information, including accounting policies, legislation in other jurisdictions.
in a manner which presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Each of the directors, the names and functions of whom are set out on pages 50 and 51, confirms that, to the best provide additional disclosures when compliance with of their knowledge, they have complied with the above the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable requirements in preparing the financial statements in users to understand the impact of particular transactions, accordance with applicable accounting standards and that other events and conditions on the Groups financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the position and financial performance: assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group.
state that the Group financial statements comply with In addition, each of the directors confirms that the strategic IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and report includes a fair review of the development and explained in the financial statements: performance of the business and the position of the Group and together with a description of the principal risks and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable uncertainties that it faces.
and prudent: and prepare the consolidated financial statements on The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having presume that the Group will continue in its business.
taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be In preparing the Company financial statements, the fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the directors are required to: information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Groups and Companys performance, Business Model select suitable accounting policies and apply them and strategy.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Signed on behalf of the Board state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Chief Executive Finance Director prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 accounts 2014 15 84
