WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report OTHER DISCLOSURES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME ETHICAL TRADING AND HUMAN RIGHTS We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility CR We are committed to good labour standards and respecting the programme that is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
environment in our supply chain.
Our Ethical Trading Code of Our CR programme is divided into four key areas: Marketplace, Conduct and Human Rights Policy outlines our expectations of Environment, Workplace and Community.
Our CR strategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East sourcing the environmental and social issues which are material to the ofce undertakes a regular programme of supplier audits to Group and to each business unit.
Our approach is shaped by the monitor labour standards.
They visit each new direct-source views and expectations of our stakeholders with whom we are in supplier factory to assess its performance, ensure that minimum regular dialogue.
standards are met and, where necessary, agree an action plan to ensure that the factory is improving its performance.
We provide The management of social and environmental matters is support as suppliers make these improvements, and aim to ensure embedded into day-to-day operations across the business.
that all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers of UK The Board carry out annual reviews to ensure the successful agents are audited at least every two years.
implementation of the CR strategy and to approve our targets for the years ahead.
The following pages provide an introduction to WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an our CR work during the year.
More detailed information, including alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promote performance data and future targets, is available in our full CR respect for workers rights around the world.
During the year, report, available at www.
we have worked closely with the ETI to agree our new strategic plan for ethical trade.
This focuses on labour standards issues identied in our audits and where we know that improved performance will address a risk area for WHSmith and help the factory manage issues like quality, efficiency and worker retention.
CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS REMAIN Objectives are focused on issues such as improving factory health and safety standards, improving worker representation, AKEY FOCUS FOR OUR BUSINESS.
and providing condential worker hotlines to help WHSmith and factory management to identify any worker concerns over CUSTOMERS labour standards.
Customer service standards remain akey focus for our business.
We have systems in place to monitor and manage the risks around We review our performance through an independently conducted modern slavery within our supply chain and our workforce.
We note Customer Satisfaction Monitor which assesses performance in the forthcoming Modern Slavery Act legislation and plan to report areas such as friendliness and helpfulness of staff, time spent on our approach in more detail next year.
queuing, and store cleanliness and tidiness.
In the latest survey, our High Street stores achieved an overall customer satisfaction A copy of our Ethical Trading Code of Conduct and Human score of 8.3 out of 10.
We use the findings of these surveys to Rights Policy is available at www.
co. uk corporate ensure that we continue to focus on the key elements of service responsibility our policies.
that are most important to our customers.
FOREST SOURCING We take seriously the responsibility for the products we sell, It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled and we are committed to listening to our customers feedback.
material used in our own-brand products is from known, legal, Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow well-managed and credibly certied forests.
We operate a rigorous in our promotional activity, marketing and advertising and seeks due diligence system and require that suppliers provide detailed to ensure that the products we sell are safe, t for purpose, meet documentary evidence of the forest sources for timber used in legal standards and are not described in a misleading manner, own-brand products.
We have set Forest Stewardship Council particularly when marketing to children.
FSC certication as a minimum standard for Far East imported We want to ensure that the food range we offer has healthy choices timber which gives a high level of assurance that pulp is from low for our customers.
We have launched the Eat Better range of risk sources.
In the year ahead, our focus will turn to engagement salads and sandwiches and have reviewed our snacking ranges to with UK suppliers to ensure that products are on papers from introduce more low salt, low fat and low sugar options.
The portion certied sustainable sources.
As at 31 August 2015, 69 per cent sizes within our confectionery range are also smaller year on of the own-brand stationery units sold were made from timber year, and the proportion of sugary carbonated drinks in our drinks from certied or recycled sources.
Our objective is that, by 2020, range has also been reduced.
We are also working closely with our 95 per cent ofown-brand stationery units sold will come from hospital landlords to develop product ranges which meet the NHS these sources.
indd 22 26 11 2015 15:11 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 We continue to focus on making our forest sourcing work visible Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period to customers by labelling own-brand stationery products with the 1 September 2014 to 31 August 2015 in tonnes of CO e 2 Forest Stewardship Council logo.
The FSC-labelling process can Percentage be complex, but we have a good number of products in the pipeline of carbon 2014 2015 footprint 2013 2014 and should see new FSC-marked products in-store prior to Christmas 2015, including fashion stationery, notebooks, and some Scope 1 emissions boxed Christmas cards.
We also measure the number of the books Combustion of fuel for 8,700 22% 8,191 we sell which are FSC-marked.
Overall, since 2010, WHSmith has the transport of WHSmith sold over 56m FSC-marked units of books and stationery.
A copy of products from distribution our Forest Sourcing Policy is available at www.
co. uk centre to store using corporate responsibility our policies.
vehicles owned by third parties.
Also combustion ENVIRONMENT of gas to heat and cool WHSmith stores, ofces We recognise that good environmental management also anddistribution centres makes good business sense.
We are committed to reducing Scope 2 emissions the environmental impact of our business, and measure our performance each year.
A copy of our Environmental Policy is Electricity purchased 30,544 76% 33,418 forWHSmiths own use available at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility used to power, light and our policies.
heat stores, ofces or Greenhouse gas emissions distributioncentres Good energy management is an established part of the business Scope 3 emissions culture, especially amongst our store teams, and we are making WHSmith employee 882 2% 1,028 good progress towards our 2020 target.
We have cut CO e 2 business travel by air, rail emissions per square foot from stores and distribution centres by and owned and non-owned 41 per cent, from our 2007 baseline.
Over the last year, we have motor vehicles consolidated savings from our LED lighting replacement work Total 40,126 100% 42,637 and extended the project to t LED lighting back of house, mainly Intensity measurement in stockrooms and back ofces.
In addition, we have continued to Total emissions 9.16 9.71 install time clocks on chillers that turn off fridges containing non Scopes1,2and 3 reported perishable products out of hours.
Our energy consultants carry above normalised per 1,000 out a weekly review of exception reports to monitor and identify squarefeet inefficient use of energy.
Our focus is on making improvements in the 50 least efficient stores.
Scope and methodology We continue to achieve efficiencies in our transport operations In the above table we have reported on all of the emission sources through better route planning and delivery frequency.
Betterrequired under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and located delivery hubs have also helped us reduce unnecessary Directors report Regulations 2013, as well as Scope 3 emissions, fuel consumption, as has our initiative to share vehicles with which are reported on a voluntary basis.
These sources fall third parties in more remote areas.
During the year, we have within our consolidated financial statements.
This data covers introduced a new transport management system which provides the continuing activities undertaken by our retailing operation real-time data to monitor driver behaviour.
All full-time drivers in the UK and Ireland.
The impacts resulting from franchise have been trained on defensive driving to reduce harsh braking and operations are excluded from this report as we are not responsible acceleration and reduce time spent with the engine idling.
The new for the operations of these stores.
The impacts resulting from system has seen fuel consumption reduced by four per cent year international stores are also excluded from this report because it is on year.
Overall, CO e emissions per pallet are down by seven per 2 not possible to collect the base emissions data at the current time.
We have used data gathered to full our requirements under the GHG Protocol, and recommended DEFRA conversion factors.
We do not believe there are any material omissions.
indd 23 26 11 2015 15:11 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Waste management Waste created by inefficient use of resources and rising landll tax represents a significant cost to the business.
In High Street, we OUR STORE TEAMS ARE ACTIVE MEMBERS recycle around 93 per cent of our waste using our dry mix recycling INTHEIR COMMUNITIES, WITH MANY STORE system which can accept most forms of waste, including plastics and metals.
As we expand our food offer in Travel, we are working MANAGERS AND STAFF GIVING THEIR TIME closely with our suppliers to minimise waste through improved TO SUPPORT LOCAL COUNCILS, TOWN forecasting and markdown policies.
Unsold chilled food is then returned to the supplier for anaerobic digestion.
CENTRE MANAGEMENT AND HIGH STREET With the introduction of the English single use plastic bag levy in SECURITY GROUPS TO PROMOTE A POSITIVE October, compulsory charges are now in place for single use bags BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ON THEIR across the UK.
We have seen customer usage of single use bags down 30 per cent in Wales and 60 per cent in Scotland and we HIGHSTREETS.
would expect a similar drop in England.
We will divide the proceeds of the charges between a number of charitable causes.
High Street Our store teams are active members intheir communities, with will continue to support the Woodland Trust as we have done many store managers and staff giving their time to support local for many years, working towards our target to fund the planting councils, town centre management and high street security groups of 250,000 trees in the decade to 2020.
Our Travel business has to promote a positive business environment on their highstreets.
chosen to support Shelter, a charity with strong links to Travels We support Business in the Communitys High Street Champions rail locations.
In addition we are establishing a fund for community programme, which has identied 25 towns where high street grants which will be open to members of the public who are regeneration is most needed.
Each year, the WHSmith Community looking for funding for a charity or school in their local community.
Awards celebrate those store teams which have built strong relationships in the communities they operate in.
HEALTH AND SAFETY We are committed to maintaining high standards of health Promoting literacy and a love of reading is a natural t for and safety.
The management team, supported by professional WHSmiths business and also helping to tackle a key social safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators issue.
We are two years into a three-year literacy project with the and an annual report detailing trends, performance and National Literacy Trust which aims to use peer learning to change recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business also the literacy culture in 25 schools in deprived areas.
To date, 5,000 has a Health and Safety Committee that comprises representatives children have taken part, earning badges and certicates as peer and professional health and safety advisers.
The Group Safety reading champions.
The schools also partner with their local team continue to provide an ongoing training programme for WHSmith store which hosts class visits and displays the childrens staff in stores, consisting of modular courses focusing on key book reviews.
We have been delighted to see the project already issues such as re safety, manual handling and slips, trips and having a measurable impact on childrens attitudes to reading, with falls.
A copy of our Health and Safety at Work Policy is available at 73 per cent of all participating children reading more frequently as www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
a result of the peer reading scheme, and 91 per cent of teachers having observed better overall reading attainment against SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY MATTERS expected reading levels.
As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community Our Schools Giveaway is another initiative which supports local investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
schools by helping them build their library resources.
Over 160 Over the year we invested a total of 1,161,504 into local High Street stores took part in the Giveaway this year with each communities 2014: 1,006,569.
Included in this gure are cash store receiving WHSmith vouchers to donate to one or more local donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
The full extent of our schools.
This year, the schoolchildren were also invited to write community investment activity, measured according to the London book reviews for display in store.
The children were excited to see Benchmarking Group model, is outlined in the Groups CR report, their work on display, and the reviews also provided a great focal available at www.
point in store for other customers.
The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent registered Charity Christmas cards continue to be popular with our charity, actively supports employees that are involved with customers as well as raising valuable funds for our charity charitable organisations in their local communities, as well as partners.
This year we expanded our range, increasing the charity working in partnership with the Group to support literacy projects.
donations by 54 per cent year on year.
We also encourage charity fundraising by staff and customers.
This year, we launched a new fundraising initiative supporting Marie Curie called the Big Readcycle, which saw over 30,000 pre-loved books donated to the charity.
A copy of our Community Engagement Policy is available at www.
