WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report OUR MARKETS TRAVEL HIGH STREET Travel stores sell a range of products to cater for people on the High Street sells a wide range of products in the following move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer categories: Stationery including greetings cards, general has less time to browse and is more interested in purchasing food, stationery, art and craft, and gifting, News and Impulse including drink and confectionery, as well as reading materials for a journey.
newspapers, magazines, confectionery and drinks and Books.
Consequently, there is a limited demand for stationery product and High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas and in the stock and layout of each Travel store reects this.
August September for back to school.
As at 31 August 2015, the Travel business operated from 736 units The High Street business operates 615 stores with an extensive in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant UK and workplaces, including 163 units in international locations.
high street with high levels of customer footfall.
As at 31 August Of the 736 units, 213 are operated under franchise agreements 2015, High Street operated from a total of 2.89m square feet of including 87 outside of the UK.
At 31 August 2015, Travel operated selling space 2014: 2.94m square feet, with stores ranging in size from a total of 0.58m square feet of selling space 2014: 0.55m from 777 square feet to more than 23,000 square feet.
square feet, with units ranging in size from 90 square feet to The digital retail business is operated by High Street and more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 573 UK Travel units, 144 are sells a range of Stationery, Books, Magazines and Gifts at in airports, 121 in railway stations, 127 in motorway service areas www.
We participate in the personalised greetings most of which are franchise units, 128 in hospitals and 53 in cards and gifts market through www.
com and other locations such as bus stations and workplaces.
operates from 163 international units in Australia, South-East Asia, the Middle East, India and Europe, and a small number of kiosks in High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth China and India.
in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector and its ability to take share in its product markets as well as specic category trends such as the impact of digitalisation on printed products.
Additionally, trends in the book market are impacted by the strength and quality of publishing in a year.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, discounters, supermarkets and internet retailers.
Other online retailers offer customers access to, and digital versions of, our product categories via their computers and mobile devices, while supermarkets give customers access to our product categories as they carry out their regular food shopping.
The growth of these formats may take market share away from theHigh Street business.
Travel stores are typically located in higher footfall locations than High Street stores, with higher operating costs and rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading period than high street retailers.
Increased passenger trafc during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
Travel is impacted by macroeconomic trends and other factors which inuence the number of travelling customers, levels of employment and investment, as well as specic category trends such as the impact of digitalisation on printed products.
Where we have reliable data on passenger trends, we see a correlation between changes in passenger numbers and our sales.
Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from other retailers in air, rail, motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
The growth of these retailers may take market share from Travel.
