Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Glossary Average Room Rate ARR Equity stores Hotel accommodation income divided by the number Costa stores leased or owned by Whitbread, as opposed of rooms occupied by guests.
to those leased or operated under franchise agreements.
Barista IAS An individual with specific training to expertly prepare International Accounting Standards.
and serve handmade espressobased coffees.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR The yearonyear growth rate of an annualised gain over Income before fixed costs IBFC a specified number of years.
Hotels & Restaurants operating profit before directly attributable fixed costs such as rent, rates, insurance, etc.
Colocation head office and central costs.
To obtain the IBFC margin A site which has both a Premier Inn and a pub restaurant IBFC is divided by sales.
in one location where the pub restaurant is not a Whitbread owned brand or business.
Income after fixed costs IAFC Hotels & Restaurants operating profit after directly Costa at Home attributable fixed costs but before allocating head office Costa have teamed up with Tassimo to bring a range and central costs.
To obtain the IAFC margin, IAFC is of Costa at Home drinks for customers to enjoy at home.
Costa for schools This is a comprehensive human and physical geography Joint sites resource for students aged 11 to 14.
It explores coffeegrowing A site which has both a Premier Inn and Whitbreadowned communities around the world and how the coffee trade pub restaurant in one location.
Like for like sales Directors forum Period over period change in total sales, less sales A group of Whitbreads senior leaders.
generated by businesses acquired or disposed of and retail outlets opened or closed during the current year Dynamic pricing system and the previous year.
The system which we deploy to vary our prices according to demand levels and room availability within certain prescribed limits.
Net Guest Score Based on the fundamental perspective that every companys customers can be divided into three categories when Earnings completing a survey with ten score choices: Promoters score Profit after tax which is attributable to the parent nine to ten, Passives score seven to eight, and Detractors shareholders.
The net guest score can be calculated by taking the percentage of customers who are Promoters Earnings per share EPS and subtract the percentage who are Detractors.
Earnings divided by the weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the year after deducting treasury shares and shares held by an independently managed Occupancy share ownership trust ESOT.
Number of hotel bedrooms occupied by guests expressed as a percentage of the number of bedrooms available EBITDAR in the period.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
Operating margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
Engagement score The engagement score is calculated by adding together the positive responses to the Your Say questions regarding pride in the organisation, advocacy recommending the Company as a place of work and intention to stay and motivation.
These scores are then averaged to produce an overall engagement score.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Glossary 146 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Profit per outlet Operating profit after allocation of overheads but before exceptional items divided by the average of the opening and closing number of outlets.
RevPAR yield Revenue per available room is also known as yield.
This hotel measure is achieved by multiplying the ARR by the occupancy rate.
This measure ignores nonroom income such as food and beverage.
Returns, Return on Capital Employed or ROCE Dividing the underlying profit before interest and tax for the year by net assets at the balance sheet date, adding back debt, taxation liabilities and the pension deficit.
Solus sites Consist of standalone Premier Inn hotels with an integrated restaurant.
System sales Retail sales from Costa outlets irrespective of whether it is an equity or a franchise store.
Tassimo The Tassimo Hot Beverage System is a consumer singleserve coffee system that prepares onecup servings of espresso, regular coffee, tea, hot chocolate and various other hot drinks.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The total return of a stock to an investor capital gain plus dividends.
Turnover per outlet Turnover in a period divided by the average of opening and closing outlets.
Underlying basic EPS Underlying profit attributable to the parent shareholders divided by the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit is operating profit excluding the amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items before tax and interest.
Underlying profit before tax Underlying operating profit excluding exceptional interest and tax and the impact of the pension finance cost accounted for under IAS 19 R. Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Glossary 147
