Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 75 General information Company information New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by theIASB incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 that are effective for financial statements after this reporting period, Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United including IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, contracts with customers, both of which are effective for annual periods Bradford, BD3 7DL, UnitedKingdom.
beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact that the application Basis of preparation of these standards and interpretations will have on the Groups nancialstatements.
The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 1February 2015 2014: 52 weeks ended 2 February 2014 in accordance Basis of consolidation with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group IFRS IC interpretations asadopted by the European Union and controls an entity when it has power over an entity, is exposed to, or with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and reporting under IFRS.
IFRSand IFRS IC interpretations are issued by has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is adopted into European Union law, referredto as endorsement, before they transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date the become mandatory under theIAS Regulation.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
consolidation are prepared for the same reporting period asthe parent The Directors assessment of going concern has been considered within Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
Intra-group theCorporate governance report on page 44. balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated onconsolidation.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to As described in note 4.6, the Group disposed of its investment in disclose the amounts up to two decimal places.
They are drawn up on the Kiddicare.
This subsidiary has been historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting deconsolidated from that date.
policies set out within these financial statements.
The presentational currency of the Group is sterling.
Foreign currencies The Groups accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are Accounting reference date retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday falling between the period.
29 January and 4 February each year.
The following amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time Critical accounting judgements and estimates for the financial period ended 1 February 2015: The judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements, and sources of estimation IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustment to carrying amounts in the next financial year are: IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 Commercial income note 1.1, 1.6, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 : required management to exercise judgement to determine which entities Impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated.
The Group and onerous property commitments note 1.4, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 : has applied IFRS 10 retrospectively in accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 10.
There is no material impact on the Group as a IT systems note 3.2 : result of applying this standard.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements These are also described within the Corporate governance report Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classied either onpage 41 to 43. as joint operations or joint ventures, depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement.
Before 2 February 2014, the Groups interest in its jointly controlled entity, MHE JVCo Limited, was accounted for using the equity method.
Under IFRS 11, the jointly controlled entity has been assessed to be a joint venture and so the equity method continues tobeappropriate.
