William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information 146 William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 50 and note 2 to the Group financial statements.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with our accounting policies.
Basis of accounting The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The Group financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where certain assets or liabilities are held at amortised cost or at fair value as described in our accounting policies.
The key accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards In preparing the Group financial statements for the current period the Group has adopted the following new IFRSs, amendments to IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, none of which have had a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group: IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits Annual Improvements 20102012 cycle Annual Improvements 20112013 cycle Standards in issue but not effective At the date of authorisation of the Group financial statements, the following Standards, amendments and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these Group financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IFRS 9 revised Financial instruments IFRS 10 amended Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 amended Joint arrangements IFRS 12 amended Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IAS 16 amended Property, plant and equipment IFRS 16 Leases IAS 27 amended Separate financial statements IAS 28 amended Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 38 amended Intangible assets Annual Improvements 20122014 cycle We anticipate that IFRS 16 Leases, which will come into effect in 2019, will have a material impact upon the Groups reported performance.
Since the impact is influenced by interest rates in future years, it is not yet possible to reasonably quantify its effects.
We do not anticipate a material impact on the results or net assets of the Group from any other standards that are in issue but not yet effective.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Basis of consolidation 147 The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company Financial its subsidiaries made up to 29 December 2015.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial statements and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired, including separately identifiable intangible assets, is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount on acquisition, i. e. where the cost of acquisition is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired, is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Interests in associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more venturers under a contractual agreement.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated in the Group financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Interests in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates and joint ventures in excess of the Groups interest in those entities are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the entity at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the interests in associates line.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the entity at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate or joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant entity, unless immaterial.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities, including separately identifiable intangible assets, of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to impairment testing.
Revenue recognition Amounts wagered does not represent the Groups statutory revenue measure and comprises the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed in the period in OTC LBO, Telephone, US, Australia and Online Sportsbook businesses and net revenue for the period for LBO gaming machines and Online casino, poker and bingo products.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers and represents amounts receivable for goods and services that the Group is in business to provide, net of discounts, marketing inducements and VAT, as set out below.
In the case of the LBO including gaming machines, Telephone, US, Online Sportsbook, Online casino including games on the Online arcade and other numbers bets and Australian operations, revenue represents gains and losses from gambling activity in the period.
Open positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the Online poker business reflects the net income rake earned from poker games completed by the period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
Other operating income mostly represents rents receivable on properties let by the Group and bookmaking software licensing income, which are recognised on an accruals basis.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investment income 148 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease period.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each period end date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the period end date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities, where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group makes efforts to match its foreign currency assets and liabilities and where necessary the Group takes out foreign currency hedges.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the period end date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly, in which case the spot rate for significant items is used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Finance costs Finance costs and income arising on interest-bearing financial instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs include the amortisation of fees that are an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial instrument, including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other differences between the amount initially recognised and the redemption price.
Profit before interest and tax Profit before interest and tax is stated after charging exceptional operating items and after the share of results of associates and joint ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each period end date.
Actuarial remeasurements are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
The net retirement benefit asset or obligation recognised in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Taxation 149 The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Financial statements The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the period end date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each period end date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Internally generated intangible assets computer software and systems Expenditure on initial investigation and research of computer software and systems is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally between three and five years.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets licences Betting licences recognised in acquisitions are recorded at fair value.
They are judged to have an indefinite life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The directors consider that the Groups licences have an indefinite life owing to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well-established market: the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services: and the Groups track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions Intangible assets arising on acquisitions are recorded at their fair value.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Acquired brands assessed separately for each asset, with lives ranging up to five years Customer relationships between three and eight years Bookmaking and mobile technology between three and five years Wagering lottery contracts ten to 12 years William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property, plant and equipment 150 Land and buildings held for use in the supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Statement of Financial Position at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties over the unexpired period of the lease Short leasehold improvements ten years Fixtures, fittings and equipment at variable rates between three and ten years and motor vehicles The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets.
Investment property Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each period end date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
This process is described in more detail in note 12 to the financial statements.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Other than for goodwill, where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the point that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cashgenerating unit in prior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories represent goods for resale within the greyhound stadia and the US operations.
They are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to all eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
The cost to the Group of share-based payment plans is measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, adjusted for the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions applicable to the option.
At each period end date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment in reserves.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme or resign from the Group.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Equity instruments 151 Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial statements Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits held by the Group with an original maturity of three months or less.
Receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their gross receivable value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when and only when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or otherwise expire.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received, net of discounts and direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including the unwinding of any discounts, premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost.
Any accrued finance costs are included in accruals within trade and other payables.
Payables Trade and other payables are not interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value, and subsequently at their amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group may use fixed rate borrowings to hedge some of its interest rate exposure.
The Group makes use of foreign currency forwards to hedge a proportion of its largest net foreign currency transactional exposures.
Where possible and practicable, the Group retains foreign currency cash balances equivalent to its foreign currency liabilities to hedge its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as effective and which are effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
Changes in the fair value of ineffective hedges, including the ineffective portion of effective hedges, are recognised immediately in profit or loss and are included in the income statement under finance costs.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the line of income statement relating to the hedged item, in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement in the same line as the hedged item, as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement under other operating expenses.
Ante-post bets are carried at fair market value as they meet the definition of a derivative.
The resulting gains and losses from bets are included in revenue.
The net liability resulting from open positions is reported within financial liabilities under the term Derivative financial instruments.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES Going concern 152 A full description of the Groups business activities, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Report, including the Financial Review, and in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements.
As highlighted in notes 20 and 21 to the Group financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from positive operational cash flow and its available cash resources.
These are supplemented when required by additional drawings under the Groups bank loan facilities, which are committed until May 2019.
Whilst there are a number of risks to the Groups trading performance, the Group is confident of its ability to continue to access sources of funding in the medium term.
The Groups strategic forecasts, based on reasonable assumptions, indicate that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its currently available and expected future facilities and its banking covenants for the period of the strategic forecast.
After making enquiries and after consideration of the Groups existing operations, cash flow forecasts and assessment of business, regulatory and financing risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
Profit measures used by the Group to monitor and report on business performance exclude exceptional items, since these items may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in this Statement of Group Accounting Policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 12 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Retirement benefit costs The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and mortality rates.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent periods.
Note 30 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Taxation Due to the multinational nature of the Group and the complexity of tax legislation in various jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the directors must apply judgement in estimating the likely outcome of certain tax matters whose final outcome may not be determined for a number of years and which may differ from the current estimation.
In forming that judgement, the directors make assumptions regarding the interpretation and application of tax laws to the circumstances of those specific items.
These estimates are updated in each period until the outcome is finally determined through resolution with a tax authority and or through a legal process.
Differences arising from changes in estimates or from final resolution may be material and will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period of re-estimation or resolution.
Valuations and useful economic lives of assets on acquisition In assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, the directors use their judgement in selecting suitable valuation methods and inputs and in estimating the useful economic lives UELs of assets.
The range of inputs considered in these valuations varies according to the item being valued and typically includes discount rates and the forecast future performance of the business being acquired, both of which involve a degree of estimation.
UELs are reviewed on a periodic basis and changes are recognised prospectively through an adjustment to the assets amortisation charge in the income statement.
A change in UEL of an asset, including the allocation of a definite life to an asset which previously had an indefinite life, may result in a materially different amortisation charge in that and subsequent years.
Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
com Printing Pureprint Group This report was printed by Pureprint Group using theirenvironmental print technology which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughoutand 99% of the dry waste associated with this production has been recycled.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company, has ISO90001 and ISO14001 accreditation a pattern of control for anenvironmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party, is registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme, and also holds the Queens Award forEnterprise: Sustainable Development.
com This report has been printed on Claro2 Silk and UPMFine Offset, both are FSC Forest Stewardship Council certied papers from responsible sources.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
The CO emissions from the production and distribution 2 of this report have been offset through thepurchase of carbon credits in the Pureprint Gold.
The offsets are always inGold Standard accredited projects and currently come from the Basa Magogo project in South Africa.
The first Gold Standard project of its kind in theworld, this innovative behaviour-change programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal more efficiently thereby reducing carbon emissions and reducing health risks by producing less smoke.
William Hill PLC Greenside House 50 Station Road Wood Green London, UK, N22 7TP T 44 0 20 8918 3600 F 44 0 20 8918 3775 www.
