William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information 106 William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 50 and note 2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with our accounting policies.
Basis of accounting The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The Group financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where certain assets or liabilities are held at amortised cost or at fair value as described in our accounting policies.
The key accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards In preparing the Group financial statements for the current period the Group has adopted a number of new IFRSs, amendments to IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, none of which have had a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group.
A list is provided in an appendix to the Annual Report.
Standards in issue but not effective A complete list of standards that are in issue but not yet effective is included with our full accounting policies in an appendix to the Annual Report.
We anticipate that IFRS 16 Leases, which will come into effect in 2019, will have a material impact upon the Groups reported performance.
Since the impact is influenced by interest rates in future years, it is not yet possible to reasonably quantify its effects.
We do not anticipate a material impact on the results or net assets of the Group from any other standards that are in issue but not yet effective.
Key accounting policies Below we set out our key accounting policies.
A complete list of our accounting policies is included in the Annual Report as an appendix on pages 146 to 152.
Revenue recognition Amounts wagered does not represent the Groups statutory revenue measure and comprises the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed in the period in over-the-counter LBO, Telephone, US, Australia and Online Sportsbook businesses and net revenue for the period for LBO gaming machines and Online casino, poker and bingo products.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers and represents amounts receivable for goods and services that the Group is in business to provide, net of discounts, marketing inducements and VAT, as set out below.
In the case of the LBO including gaming machines, Telephone, US, Online Sportsbook, Online casino including games on the Online arcade and other numbers bets and Australian operations, revenue represents gains and losses from gambling activity in the period.
Open positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the Online poker business reflects the net income rake earned from poker games completed by the period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
Other operating income mostly represents rents receivable on properties let by the Group and bookmaking software licensing income, which are recognised on an accruals basis.
Going concern A full description of the Groups business activities, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Report, including the Financial Review, and in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements.
As highlighted in notes 20 and 21 to the Group financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from positive operational cash flow and its available cash resources.
These are supplemented when required by additional drawings under the Groups bank loan facilities, which are committed until May 2019.
Whilst there are a number of risks to the Groups trading performance, the Group is confident of its ability to continue to access sources of funding in the medium term.
The Groups strategic forecasts, based on reasonable assumptions, indicate that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its currently available and expected future facilities and its banking covenants for the period of the strategic forecast.
After making enquiries and after consideration of the Groups existing operations, cash flow forecasts and assessment of business, regulatory and financing risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
William William Hill Hill P PL LC C St Stra rat te egic gic A An nnual nual Repor Report t and and A Accoun ccount ts s 2 20 01 15 5 re rep po or rt t Go Gov five ernance rnance Exceptional items 107 Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers Fi Fin na an nc ci ia al l attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
Profit measures used by the Group to monitor and report on business stat statements ements performance exclude exceptional items, since these items may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies included on pages 146 to 152, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 12 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Retirement benefit costs The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and mortality.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent periods.
Note 30 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Taxation Due to the multinational nature of the Group and the complexity of tax legislation in various jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the directors must apply judgement in estimating the likely outcome of certain tax matters whose final outcome may not be determined for a number of years and which may differ from the current estimation.
In forming that judgement, the directors make assumptions regarding the interpretation and application of tax laws to the circumstances of those specific items.
These estimates are updated in each period until the outcome is finally determined through resolution with a tax authority and or through a legal process.
Differences arising from changes in estimates or from final resolution may be material and will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period of re-estimation or resolution.
Valuations and useful economic lives of assets on acquisition In assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, the directors use their judgement in selecting suitable valuation methods and inputs and in estimating the useful economic lives UELs of assets.
The range of inputs considered in these valuations varies according to the item being valued and typically includes discount rates and the forecast future performance of the business being acquired, both of which involve a degree of estimation.
UELs are reviewed on a periodic basis and changes are recognised prospectively through an adjustment to the assets amortisation charge in the income statement.
A change in UEL of an asset, including the allocation of a definite life to an asset which previously had an indefinite life, may result in a materially different amortisation charge in that and subsequent years.
