William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2015 Governance The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP 137 accounting standards.
A summary of the Companys principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout Financial the period and the preceding period, is set out below.
statements Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and company law.
UK GAAP accounting standards were withdrawn for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Accordingly, for its financial year ending 28 December 2016, the Company intends to transition to reporting under FRS 101, as published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity as published by the FRC, and as such intends to take advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101.
No disclosures in the current UK GAAP financial statements would be omitted following transition to FRS 101.
Any shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the allotted shares in the Company may serve objections on the Company by writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office, Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP, no later than 11 May 2016.
Exemptions The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash flow statements.
The cash flows of the Company are subsumed within the William Hill PLC Group financial statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Parties from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the William Hill PLC Group.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision, if any, for impairment.
Tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at an average rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates ruling at that date.
Translation differences arising are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of that debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received, net of discounts and direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including the unwinding of any discounts, premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost.
Any accrued finance costs are included in accruals and deferred income within creditors.
Derivative financial instruments The Company does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the William Hill PLC Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Termination payments made or received are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure continues to exist.
In other cases, termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES Own shares held 138 Own shares held in treasury and held in employment benefit trusts are included within reserves.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees within the William Hill PLC Group and operates a number of HMRC-approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option schemes open to all eligible employees within the William Hill PLC Group, which allow the purchase of shares at a discount.
The cost to the Group of both of these types of share-based payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and is borne by the employing company within the Group.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Groups share-based payment plans are given in note 29 to the Group financial statements.
Going concern A full description of the Groups business activities, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Report, including the Financial Review, and in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements.
As highlighted in notes 20 and 21 to the Group financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements from positive operational cash flow and its available cash resources.
These are supplemented when required by additional drawings under the Groups bank loan facilities, which are committed until May 2019.
Whilst there are a number of risks to the Groups trading performance, the Group is confident of its ability to continue to access sources of funding in the medium term.
The Groups strategic forecasts, based on reasonable assumptions, indicate that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its currently available and expected future facilities and its banking covenants for the period of the strategic forecast.
After making enquiries and after consideration of the Groups existing operations, cash flow forecasts and assessment of business, regulatory and financing risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
