Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 114 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies 52 weeks ended 1 February 2015 11 Company financial statements Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including property, 11.1 Accounting policies manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store depreciation, store overheads andstore-based employee costs are also allocated to cost Basis of preparation of sales.
These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Other operating income the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies related to grocery retailing and mainly comprises rental incomes and set out below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards income generated from recycling of packaging.
Rental income arising under UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006. from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis to the date As noted in the annual report and financial statements for the year ended ofthenext rentreview.
2 February 2014, the Directors were advised that certain distributions Investments including share repurchases carried out in the years ended 3 February Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures 2013 and 2 February 2014 were made otherwise than in accordance Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated with the Companies Act 2006.
At a general meeting of the Companys atcost less provision for impairment.
shareholders, held on 6 March 2015, a resolution was passed which ratied the payment of the relevant dividends, authorised the reInvestments in equity instruments execution of the relevant share repurchases and removed any right for All equity instruments are held for long term investment and are measured the Company to pursue shareholders or directors for the repayment of at fair value, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Where the fair the relevant funds.
The overall effect of this resolution being passed is value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, the investment will to return all parties to the position that they would have been in had the be recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses in accordance relevant distributions been made in accordance with the Companies with FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Anyimpairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in Tangible assets dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation Companys financial statements.
Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and material Accounting reference date residual values.
The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Depreciation The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates that are Revenue recognition calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible xed assets Sale of goods instore and online, and fuel on a straight-line basis.
The rates applied are: Revenue from the sale of goods in-store and online comprises cash from customers and excludes VAT.
It is net of returns, colleague discounts, coupons, vouchers, Match & More points earned in-store and online and Freehold land 0% the free element of multi-save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net Freehold buildings 2.5% of VAT and Match & More points earned on fuel.
Revenue is recognised Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% when transactions are completed in-store, or, in the case of online sales, Plant, equipment, 10% to 33% when goods are accepted by the customer on delivery.
xtures and vehicles Other sales Software development costs 10% to 33% Other revenue includes income from concessions and commissions Assets under construction 0% based on the terms of the contract.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is not recognised as turnover, other than the related commission.
Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when events Salesare recorded net of value added tax.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may Match & More and other initiatives not be recoverable.
This is performed for each income generating unit, The fair value of Match & More and other initiatives is determined to be which in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there the value to the customer of the points issued, adjusted for factors such as are indications of possible impairment, then a test is performed on the the expected redemption rate.
Given Match & More was launched in the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
year the Company will continue to assess the appropriateness of the rates An impaired asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which is the against actual redemptions going forward.
higher of value in use or its net realisable value.
In assessing value inuse, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value The fair value is treated as a deduction from revenue at the time the using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments points are issued, and is deferred until the rewards are redeemed by ofthe time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 115 11 Company financial statements continued The effective part of any movement in the fair value of the derivative isrecognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 11.1 Accounting policies continued STRGL and presented in the hedging reserve within equity.
Ineffectiveness is immediately recognised in profit for the period, If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had energyprice contracts within cost of sales and cross-currency swaps been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the within finance income costs.
Cumulative gains or losses on derivatives impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does held in the hedging reserve are reclassied into profit for the period not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if whenthe transaction occurs.
noimpairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
Fair value hedges Software development costs A fair value hedge mitigates the Companys exposure to changes in fair Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identiable software, value of a recognised asset or liability or a rm commitment.
The change which meet the development asset recognition criteria as laid out in FRS in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the 15 Tangible xed assets are recognised as tangible assets.
hedged risk is recognised in profit for the period.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, the employment costs of Capital management internal software developers and borrowing costs.
All other software The capital management policy of the Company is consistent with that development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense when ofthe Group set out in note 6.7. incurred.
Software development assets are held at historical cost less Borrowing costs accumulated depreciation and impairment, and are depreciated over All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and loss their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight-line basis.
account on an accruals basis, except for interest costs that are directly Financial instruments attributable to the construction of buildings and other qualifying assets Trade and other debtors which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which Capitalisation commences when both expenditure on the asset and is generally equal to face value, and subsequently held at amortised borrowing costs are being incurred, and necessary activities to prepare cost.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the the asset for use are in progress.
In the case of new stores, this is generally Company will not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge once planning permission has been obtained.
Capitalisation ceases being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Balances are written when the asset is ready for use.
Interest is capitalised at the effective offwhenthe probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
rateincurred on borrowings before taxation of 5% 2014: 5%.
Cash at bank and in hand Pension costs Cash at bank and in hand includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank A dened contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the overdrafts.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts that do not have a right Company pays xed contributions into a separate entity and provides of offset are presented within current liabilities.
no guarantee as to the quantum of retirement benets that those contributions will ultimately purchase.
A dened benefit scheme Trade and other creditors isonethat is not a dened contribution scheme.
Trade and other creditors are initially stated at fair value, which is generally equal to face value, and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Pension scheme assets are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are an estimate of the amount required to pay the benets Borrowings that employees have earned in exchange for current and past service, Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable assessed and discounted to present value using the assumptions transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, any difference shown in note 11.10.
The net pension liability or asset recognised between the redemption value and the initial carrying amount is inthe Companys balance sheet is the net of the schemes assets recognised in profit for the period over the period of the borrowings andobligations, which are calculated separately for each scheme.
Theoperating and nancing costs of the schemes are recognised Derivative financial instruments separately in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight-line basis over their and are remeasured at fair value through profit or loss, except where vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately thederivative qualies for hedge accounting.
Cash ow hedges A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the A cash ow hedge mitigates the Companys exposure to variability in Companys net obligations to the schemes and is stated net of deferred tax.
cash ows attributable either to a recognised asset or liability or a highly Foreign currencies probable forecasted transaction.
The Company has cross-currency swaps Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange and energy price contracts designated as cash ow hedges.
at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 116 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies continued 52 weeks ended 1 February 2015 11 Company financial statements continued reported in the profit and loss account as it is adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible and timing differences.
11.1 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay Provisions less tax, at a future date, at average rates expected to apply when they Provisions are created where the Company has a present obligation as a crystallise, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the result of a past event, where it is probable that it will result in an outow balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of economic benets to settle the obligation, and where it can be reliably of income and expenditure in taxation computations in different periods measured.
For petrol lling station decommissioning costs this is when from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
the lling station is first constructed and for dilapidations on leased buildings, when the lease is entered into.
Provisions for onerous leases A net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is recoverable on are recognised when the Company believes that the unavoidable costs the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic benets expected profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from to be received under the lease.
The amounts provided are based on the which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be Companys best estimate of the least net cost of exit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
these estimated outows are discounted to net present value using a pretax rate that reects current market assumptions.
The unwinding of this Stock discount is recognised as a nancing cost in the profit and loss account.
Stock represents goods for resale and is measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price Leases in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are to make the sale.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases: all other leases comprises purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable are classied as finance leases.
taxes, reduced by commercial income and a provision for estimated losses relating to shrinkage.
Losses relating to shrinkage in stores are Lessor accounting operating leases based on historical losses veried by physical stock counts conducted Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are recorded as by an independent third party.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow xed assets and are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated movingitems.
residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Sharebased payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Sale and leaseback employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classication on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding principles described above.
For sale and operating leasebacks, the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is increase in equity.
This is based on the Companys estimate of share recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
A number of options that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement newproperty operating leases have been entered into in the year ended of non-market conditions, being service conditions and financial 1February 2015 see property commitments note 6.8.
When forming the performance, if relevant.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial conclusion of operating lease classication, consideration was given to stochastic option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model the key lease classication indicators of SSAP 21.
The leases are typically has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of for a 25 year period.
The Directors have reviewed the remaining useful non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
lives for these particular properties and concluded they are signicantly Thecost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is longer than the period of the lease.
As disclosed on page 88 a review of calculated, based on an appropriate apportionment, and recharged the useful economic lives of each of the property, plant and equipment through intercompany.
categories has been performed in the year with no changes made.
Other Financial contracts key indicators considered in reaching an operating lease classication Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the were the present value of the minimum lease payments and the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company ownership clauses in the contracts upon expiry of the lease.
considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them Lessee accounting operating leases as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight-line a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the basis over the life of the lease.
Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital Lessee accounting finance leases Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly The lower of the fair value and the present value, calculated using the attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity interest rate implicit in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments asadeduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
is included within property, plant and equipment and financial liabilities as an obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation is provided at the Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, if shorter.
consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of finance charge Oncancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share on the remaining balance.
capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Deferred and current taxation Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the period using tax rates in effect during the period.
Taxable profit differs from the profit as
