Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity Convertible debt are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, the liability element.
The difference between this figure and any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument the cash received is classified as equity.
recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast The consolidated income statement charge for the transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer finance cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss debt so that at redemption the liability equals the recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss redemption value.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives Other debt when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported received, net of direct issue costs.
in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowing costs Liabilities in respect of option agreements Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners income statement over the term of those borrowings.
to require the Group to purchase a non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet initially at the Revenue recognition present value of the redemption amount in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect subsequently measured at fair value in accordance with IAS of amounts billed.
Direct costs include fees paid to external 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of The movement in the fair value is recognised as income or a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure expense within revaluation of financial instruments in the is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is consolidated income statement.
stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Derecognition of financial liabilities In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the Group is only released to the consolidated income statement when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
174 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies Advertising and Media Investment Management Data Investment Management Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may performed for market research contracts is based on consist of various arrangements involving commissions, proportional performance.
In assessing contract fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
as agreed upon with each client.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in performance.
The primary input of all work performed accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we relationship between labour and cost, there is normally act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a a direct relationship between costs incurred and the client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these as an initial proportional performance measure.
This activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that indicative proportional performance measure is we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
subsequently validated against other more subjective In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports the Group acts as a principal and contracts directly with delivered to a client and the achievement of any project suppliers for media payments and production costs, the milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of revenue recorded is the gross amount billed.
divergence between the objective and more subjective Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both measures, the more subjective measures take precedence quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related since these are output measures.
to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the While most of the studies provided in connection quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when in response to an individual clients or group of clients the incentive is received or receivable.
specifications, in certain instances a study may be The Group receives volume rebates from certain developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local recognised when the product is delivered.
Where the law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
terms of transaction provide for licensing the product If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as on a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over the liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are subscription period on a straight-line basis or, if applicable, recorded as revenue when earned.
Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on which to measure proportional performance when the actual threshold is reached provided that collectability is reasonably assured.
