About the artists The island whose art is finding a place in the sun s Cubas relations with the US thaw, Towards the end of the 20th century, in postrevolutionary Cuba, home-grown and often self-taught art the Caribbean islands art is also asserted itself.
Folk, nave and primitive styles developed.
These densely patterned and coloured works, often depicting enjoyment of life despite hardship, are usually There are said to be more artists in devoid of classically taught perspective and scale.
Cuba per head of population than in any other One of the best known folk art collectives to emerge country.
Vibrant work spills out everywhere around this time was the Grupo Bayate, founded in 1994 by Luis Rodrguez Arias b.
1942. and anywhere: its on walls and pavements, During the late 20th century, the Cuban avant garde in homes and warehouses.
moved towards Hyperrealism, and artists including ManuelMendive b.
1944 started working in conceptual In Cubas state and private galleries, professionals from art.
Mendive is considered Cubas foremost living artist long-established and highly-regarded academies rub and has exhibited worldwide.
His works, which include shoulders with self-taught artists.
The highly-esteemed performance and soft sculpture, draw on Cubas contemporary scene is showcased at the Havana Biennale, African heritage.
and the main historic movements are represented in Cuban art can be found throughout the US.
There are Havanas Museo Nacional fide Bellas Artes.
dedicated spaces in the Cuban Foundation Museum in Early works include costumbrismo paintings, a genre Florida, which controversially houses the collection of the introduced from colonial Spain that spread throughout former dictator General Fulgencio Batista, overthrown by Latin America in the early 19th century.
At the time, Fidel Castro in 1959.
The Bronx Museum of the Arts in costumbrismo seemed to herald a new realism by New York has a continuing collaboration with the Museo concentrating on the details of ordinary life, although in Nacional fide Bellas Artes.
truth it was highly idealised.
Today the genre has come to The market in Cuban art is burgeoning, as contemporary embrace the peasant life and folkloric themes typified by and established Cuban names draw collectors and art Oscar Garca Rivera 1916-1971. lovers from around the globe.
The fame of these artists can By the 1920s, Cuba had its own avant garde movement, only grow.
the Vanguardia, in which European Cubism, Surrealism and Primitivism were blended with Cuban art: a Cuban Cubism.
Leading artists, particularly graduates of the elite Academy of San Alejandro, sought inspiration from Europes cultural centres, particularly Madrid and Paris.
This produced some of Cubas most celebrated artists, including Eduardo Abela 1889-1965, who was influenced by Chagall and Mexican murals.
