Investor Information 203 Investor Information American Depositary Receipts ADRs International payment service WS Atkins plc The Company has a Level 1 ADR for dividends Registered in England programme.
This enables US investors Capita Registrars offers shareholders Company no.
1885586 to purchase the Companys American a service to convert sterling dividends Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS into certain local currencies.
This service Company secretary and represents 1 ordinary share.
provides faster access to funds and registered office will generally cost less than the fees Richard Webster JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. acts as an charged by your local bank.
For WS Atkins plc ADR depositary bank.
further information, please contact Woodcote Grove the registrar address above.
Ashley Road For the issuance and management of Telephone: 44 0 20 8639 3405 Epsom ADRs, and any general ADR questions, if calling from outside the UK or Surrey KT18 5BW please contact: 0871 664 0385 if calling from the UK England calls cost 10p per minute plus any JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. additional network charges : lines are Financial calendar P. O.
Ex-dividend date 9 July 2015 St. Paul Email: ips@capita.
co. uk or visit the Record date 10 July 2015 Minnesota 55164-0504 registrars website: www.
Last day to elect for DRIP 22 July 2015 USA capitaregistrars.
Annual General Meeting 29 July 2015 Investor helpline: 800-990-1135 if calling Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Final dividend from the US toll free or 1-651-453-2128 The Company offers a dividend payment date 21 August 2015 if calling from outside the US.
reinvestment plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient way of increasing their Shareholder services Website: www.
Should Registrar you wish to participate in the DRIP Enquiries and notifications concerning Investor relations website please contact the registrar on the dividends, share certificates, transfers Many commonly asked shareholders telephone number given above to and address changes should be sent questions are addressed in the investor request a mandate form and an to the registrar, whose address is: relations section of our website: explanatory booklet.
mandate form must be received by the Capita Asset Services registrar no later than 22 July 2015 if The Registry E-communications you wish your final dividend for the year 34 Beckenham Road Shareholders can choose to receive all to be reinvested to buy additional shares.
Kent BR3 4TU This environmentally friendly way Amalgamation of accounts UK of receiving information has a number Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of advantages including speedier of Company mailings owing to multiple Telephone: 0871 664 0300 if calling delivery of documents and the ability accounts in their name should contact from the UK calls cost 10p per minute to access reports and results on the the registrar to have their accounts plus any additional network charges internet wherever you are.
or 44 0 20 8639 3399 if calling from please visit our share portal at outside the UK: lines are open 0900 www.
Unsolicited mail to 1730 Monday to Friday.
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available to third parties You can access and maintain your Atkins who may then use it for a mailing list.
shareholding online through our share If you are a UK shareholder and you wish portal: www.
to limit receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so by registering with the Mailing Other shareholder enquiries should be Preference Service MPS.
Registration can addressed to Atkins company secretary be made online at www.
uk at the registered office.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 204 Investor Information Investor Information continued Giving your shares to charity Share fraud warning Protecting your investment If you only have a small number of shares Remember: if it sounds too good We strongly advise you to deal only with whose value makes it uneconomic to sell to be true, it probably is.
financial services firms that are authorised them, you may wish to consider donating by the FCA.
Keep in mind that authorised them to charity though ShareGift, an You should be very wary of any firms are unlikely to contact you out of independent share donation scheme.
unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares the blue with an offer to buy or sell The relevant share transfer form can be at a discount or offers of free company shares.
If you deal with an unauthorised obtained from the registrar.
firm, you would not be eligible to receive is administered by The Orr Mackintosh payment under the Financial Services Foundation Limited, registered charity In recent years, many companies have Compensation Scheme.
Further information become aware that their shareholders may be obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 have received unsolicited telephone calls For more information visit the FCA or from www.
or correspondence concerning investment website: www.
These are typically from overseas scams or read the FCA Beware of share Identity theft based brokers working in boiler rooms fraud leaflet.
Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals who target UK shareholders, offering may steal your personal information, to sell them what often turn out to be Reporting a scam putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
worthless or high risk shares in US or UK If you are approached about an investments.
These brokers can be very investment scam, contact the FCA Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: persistent, extremely persuasive and use using the share fraud reporting form: sophisticated means to approach and www.
You can also ensure all your certificates are kept convince investors.
The Financial Conduct call the FCA Consumer Helpline on in a safe place or hold your shares Authority FCA has found that even 0800 111 6768.
Reporting unauthorised electronically in CREST via a nominee experienced investors have been caught organisations who are targeting, or have keep all correspondence from the out by share fraud.
It was also discovered targeted, UK investors, means the FCA registrar that shows your shareholder that, on average, victims of boiler rooms can maintain an up to date list and reference number in a safe place, lose an average of 20,000 to these appropriate action can be considered.
or destroy your correspondence by scams, with as much as 200 million shredding it being lost in the UK each year.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action if you change address inform the If you receive any unsolicited investment Fraud, the UKs national reporting registrar in writing or via our share advice, you should follow the steps below: centre for fraud and internet crime, on portal at www.
The service is run by the avoid getting into a conversation, know when dividends are paid and City of London Police working alongside note the name of the person and firm consider having your dividend paid the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau.
contacting you and then end the call directly into your bank account.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being check that they are properly authorised intercepted or lost in the post.
If you by the FCA before getting involved change your bank account, inform via its register: www.
uk or the registrar of the details of your new call 0800 111 6768 account.
You can do this by post or search the list of unauthorised firms online using our share portal at to avoid: www.
Respond to any letters the registrar sends you think about getting independent about this financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
if you receive a letter from the registrar regarding a change of address or Details of any share dealing facilities that a dividend instruction but have not the Company endorses will be included recently moved or requested a change in Company mailings.
to how you receive your dividends please contact them immediately as you may have been a victim of identity theft if you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information 205 Investor Information continued You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports Corporate Sustainability Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Sustainability strategy and performance by visiting Investor presentations this section of our website.
Links to results presentations, videos, press releases Alerts and webcasts.
Receive automated announcements and news by Shareholders queries signing up to our alerting service.
We provide a number of services to help our shareholders Latest financial news manage their holdings, keep Access our latest financial up to date with our progress press releases here.
Share price Charts showing share price activity.
Register for ecomms You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 206 Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 207 Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 208 Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 As one of the worlds most respected design, engineering and project management consultancies, we have a responsibility to help move the world forward, one step at a time.
We care about it: we want it to be a place where everyone is Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared to provide considered, and where lives are enriched through information to the members of the Company.
The Company and its directors and the Groups employees are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to any other the implementation of our ideas.
person in relation to this Annual Report.
This Annual Report contains indications of likely future You see, we dont just imagine: we have the power developments and other forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other to transform potential into reality.
We have the things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and business breadth and depth of expertise, the intellect and segments in which the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the drive to make such a future happen: not only Principal risks and uncertainties pages 48 to 53.
These and other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward looking statements involve because we can, but because we must.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from Working with our clients and partners, we believe those currently expected.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result that the scale of what we can accomplish together of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
is greater than anyone can imagine.
This is our time to make a difference.
You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at: www.
com investors This Annual Report is printed on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is PCF Process Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com TT-COC-002228 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 info@atkinsglobal.
com Annual Report 2015 By printing 1,600 copies of this Report on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper the environmental impact was reduced by: 2,991.33 kg of landfill 62,208 litres of water 5,732.37 kWh of energy 442.26 kg CO and greenhouse gases 2 4,860 kg of wood Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology.
Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data virgin fibre paper available.
Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject to modification.
