Our 2015 financial statements Independent auditors report Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Taxation reserves We have: The results of our testing were satisfactory.
There is uncertainty in respect of resolving Discussed and considered all significant taxation exposures There were no material matters with tax authorities around the world.
with Group management including their tax specialists.
exceptions noted The highly disaggregated nature of the Group Together with our internal taxation specialists we when corroborating coupled with its acquisitive nature means that challenged the estimates and judgements made by Managements there are a number of different tax jurisdictions management when calculating the income tax payable judgement to the in which the Group could be liable to pay tax, in each territory and the associated provisions held.
correspondence and making potential tax exposures a key audit risk.
We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in support reviewed Therefore assessing the Groups exposure to significant locations where available, as well as reviewing the for those significant significant tax risks and the level of provisions support or opinions received from external counsel and other tax reserves.
recognised is an area of judgement.
advisors where management has utilised such opinions to Refer to page 118 Review of the Audit make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Committee, page 176 accounting policy and page 190 financial disclosures.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Restructuring costs and IT transformation there has been no significant restructuring programme and the IT transformation costs have not been as significant during the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 118.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality consolidated income statement.
Where differences only impacted the consolidated balance sheet, we reported on We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement differences over 1.0 million 2014: 1.0 million.
This is in the financial statements that makes it probable that the shown in the graph below.
We also reported differences economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both on qualitative grounds, together with disclosure matters in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating that we identified when assessing the overall presentation the results of our work.
We have determined that the critical benchmark for the Group was pre-tax profit because we consider this measure Financial Statements Materiality to be what the shareholders believe to be a key performance 76.6 million indicator for the Group.
We determined materiality for the Threshold for reporting aggregated consolidated Group to be 76.6 million 2014: 62.2 million, which, profit before tax balance sheet misstatements 1,493 million to the Audit Committee as in 2014, is 5% of pre-tax profit.
We also considered 1.0 million this measure to be suitable having compared to another Threshold for reporting consolidated income benchmark: our materiality is below 1% of equity 2014: statement misstatements below 1%.
Materiality is higher than for the year ended to the Audit Committee 0.75 million 31 December 2014 primarily as a result of higher pre-tax profit achieved in 2015.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.75 million 2014: 0.5 million that affected the 224 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Independent auditors report An overview of the scope of our audit These are designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits all key locations across the Group on a As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the Group, regular basis.
In addition we assess the competence of with operations in 112 countries and more than 3,000 our component auditors.
offices among more than 150 companies within the Group, In years when we do not visit a key location we will: a significant portion of audit planning time is spent so that include the component audit partner in our team briefing: the scope of our work is appropriate to address the Groups discuss their risk assessment: and identified risks of material misstatement.
In selecting the review documentation of the findings from their work.
components that are in scope each year, we refresh and We also hold quarterly meetings with management update our understanding of the Group and its environment, at a regional and global level in order to update our including obtaining an understanding of the Groups system understanding of the Group and its environment on of internal controls, and assessing the risks of material an on-going basis.
misstatement at the Group level, in order to check that the units selected provide an appropriate basis on which to undertake audit work to address the identified risks of Opinion on other matters prescribed material misstatement.
Such audit work represents a by our engagement letter combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement In our opinion: in the most effective manner possible.
Those entities subject the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be to audit provide for coverage of 83% of the Groups audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the consolidated revenue 2014: 83% : achieved through a UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the combination of direct testing and specified audit procedures Company: and including substantive analytical review procedures the information given in the Strategic Report and the performed by the Group auditor and or component auditors Directors Report for the financial year for which the across the world.
Our audit work at the components is financial statements are prepared is consistent with the executed at levels of materiality appropriate for such financial statements.
components, which in all instances are lower than Group materiality.
In order to support our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the Matters on which we are required to report aggregated financial information of the remaining by exception components not subject to audit, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures at the parent entity level using our bespoke data analytics tool.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records How we work closely with component Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to auditors report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and The Group audit team plans its visits to component auditors explanations we require for our audit: or based on a carefully designed programme, which considers proper accounting records have not been kept by the a variety of factors including size of entity and number of Parent Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit significant risks: this programme is put in place to check have not been received from branches not visited by us: or that appropriate oversight and guidance is provided to the the financial statements are not in agreement with the component auditors through a combination of: accounting records and returns.
upfront team briefings to all component teams: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
site visits: central review of documentation: and risk assessment discussions and detailed workpaper reviews.
225 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Independent auditors report Directors remuneration on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Under our engagement letter we are required to report if in Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration that our quality control procedures are effective, that would be required by the UK Companies Act 2006 understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems have not been made or the part of the Directors include our dedicated professional standards review team Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement and independent partner reviews.
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing This report is made solely to the companys members, to report arising from these matters.
as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been Corporate Governance Statement undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the UK Listing Rules we are also required to review in an auditors report and or those further matters we have part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility arising from our review.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report or for the opinions we have formed.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Scope of the audit of the financial information in the annual report is: statements materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the course of performing our audit: or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or otherwise misleading.
This includes an assessment of: whether the In particular, we are required to consider whether we accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge the Parent Companys circumstances and have been acquired during the audit and the directors statement that consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made understandable and whether the annual report by the directors: and the overall presentation of the appropriately discloses those matters that we financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial communicated to the audit committee which we consider and non-financial information in the annual report to should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the Respective responsibilities of directors course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of and auditor any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Richard Muschamp give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP express an opinion on the financial statements in Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor accordance with applicable law and International Standards London, United Kingdom 15 April 2016 226 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
