Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding presentation, whilst having no impact on the timing & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist of expected cash flows.
Accordingly, the consolidated Communications balance sheets at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 have been restated to reclassify 441.2 million Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services and 362.6 million respectively of corporate income tax to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Revenue is payable from non-current liabilities to current liabilities.
recognised when the service is performed, in accordance Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable consolidated income statement revenue and related costs profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability as contract activity progresses.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except Taxation when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive rates.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax income or equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to currently payable and deferred tax.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number available against which deductible temporary differences of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in can be utilised, which can require the use of accounting determining the appropriate provision for transactions estimation and the exercise of judgement.
Such assets and where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other taxes based on the best information available and where assets and liabilities other than in a business combination the anticipated liability is both probable and estimable, in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor liabilities are classified as current.
Any interest and penalties the accounting profit.
accrued are included in corporate income taxes both in the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
Where at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
deferred tax provisions in the period in which the final Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable determination is made.
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are difference and it is probable that the temporary difference made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported against current tax liabilities and when they relate to in the consolidated income statement because it excludes income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities in other years and it further excludes items that are never on a net basis.
The Groups liability for current tax Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively The Group has revised its tax accounting policy to enacted legislation.
classify all income tax creditors as current liabilities.
The Group believes this provides a more relevant 176 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
