Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies Retirement benefit costs Operating leases The Group accounts for retirement benefit costs in Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease For defined contribution plans, contributions are term.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease charged to the consolidated income statement as payable is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
in respect of the accounting period.
For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs, past service Translation of foreign currencies costs, administrative expenses and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the in the consolidated income statement when the related transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated plan amendment occurs.
Net interest expense is calculated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the by applying the discount rate to the recognised overall year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses surplus or deficit in the plan.
are credited or charged to the consolidated income Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately statement as they arise.
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The income statements of overseas subsidiary Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at of the plan are held separately from those of the Group, average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of these in separate independently managed funds.
Pension plan companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of such operations are reported in the consolidated statement equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the and are updated at each balance sheet date.
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the is limited based on the economic gain the Company is closing rate.
expected to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance with IAS 19.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments Finance leases including share options to certain employees and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-marketfair value and the present value of the minimum lease based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26. assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised and interest elements and the interest is charged to the in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-marketbased vesting conditions.
