How we comply Corporate governance Relations with share owners Dialogue with share owners The relationship with share owners, potential share owners and investment analysts is given high priority by the Company.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, performance and competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the Companys current and potential share owners, this program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the deputy Group finance director and the head of investor relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The Companys chairman meets with investors and regularly consults with investors governance representatives and advisory bodies.
The Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim management statement at the end of the first and third quarters that includes a trading update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the AGM.
The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue with share owners and their representative bodies through executive and non-executive directors in relation to remuneration and corporate governance matters.
In 2015, the chairman held extensive rounds of discussions with share owners and advisory groups regarding senior executive compensation, and CEO and Board succession planning.
The chairman and senior independent director provide thorough feedback to the Board on issues raised with them by share owners.
com, provides current and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations and the Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
The Annual General Meeting The 2016 AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 June 2016 at 12 noon at Pullman Hotel London St Pancras, 100-110 Euston Road, London NW1 2AJ.
A separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to share owners and will be published on WPPs website, wpp.
All resolutions for which notice has been given will be decided on a poll.
167 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Other statutory information Substantial share ownership Articles of Association As at 15 April 2016, the Company is aware of the following There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Association of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
MFS 6.6% BlackRock Inc 5.1% Share capital The disclosed interests refer to the respective combined holdings of the entity and to interests associated with it.
The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of The Company has not been notified of any other 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital are outlined in the Articles of Association: there are no Profits and dividends restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting rights and no securities carry special voting rights with regard The profit before tax for the year was 1,492.6 million to control of the Company.
The directors declared a final At the AGM on 9 June 2015, share owners passed dividend of 28.78p 2014: 26.58p per share to be paid resolutions authorising the Company, in accordance with on 4 July 2016 to share owners on the register at 10 June its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum 2016 which, together with the interim ordinary dividend nominal amount of 87,271,076 of which 6,551,882 of 15.91p 2014: 11.62p per share paid on 9 November could be allotted for cash free of statutory pre-emption 2015, makes a total of 44.69p for the year 2014: 38.20p.
In the year under review no shares were issued for cash free from pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital movements are given in note 26 on pages 211 to 213.
Change of control All of our bonds contain provisions which are triggered Authority for purchase of own shares on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment at par except for holders At the AGM on 9 June 2015, share owners passed a special of our US$ bonds.
The holders here have the right to resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with redeem the bonds at 101% of par, if the Company is its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 131,037,653 non-investment grade at the time of the change of control of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the 39,607,954 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were announcement of the change of control.
purchased at an average price of 14.84 per share.
In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $2,500 million due July 2020, the terms of which require the consent of the majority of the lenders Auditors if a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company would alter its legal personality or identity.
The directors will propose a resolution at the AGM to In general terms, awards granted under WPPs re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
incentive plans will usually vest on a change of control, albeit on a pro-rated basis.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, those conditions will still need to be met, also on a pro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans allow the Compensation Committee to require outstanding awards to be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
168 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we comply Other statutory information Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping proper in respect of the preparation of accounting records, which disclose with reasonable financial statements accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps The directors are responsible for preparing the financial for the prevention and detection of fraud and other statements in accordance with applicable law and irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare financial report and directors remuneration report.
statements for the Group in accordance with International The directors are responsible for the maintenance Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European and integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation Union IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial and UK regulation governing the preparation and statements for the Company in accordance with UK dissemination of financial statements differs from accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
to prepare such financial statements in accordance with The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, the Companies Jersey Law 1991. there is no relevant audit information of which the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has financial statements present fairly for each financial year taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, the Companys financial position, financial performance as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of any relevant audit information and to establish that of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Governance Code, the Board has established arrangements International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for to evaluate whether the information presented in the the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be these are described on page 117. achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors The Board considers the Annual Report and financial are also required to: statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and properly select and apply accounting policies: understandable and provides the information necessary present information, including accounting policies, for share owners to assess the Companys position, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable performance, business model and strategy.
and understandable information: The letters from the chairmen of the Nomination and provide additional disclosures, when compliance with Governance, Audit and Compensation Committees, the the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable statements regarding directors responsibilities and statement users to understand the impact of particular transactions, of going concern set out above and the directors remuneration other events and conditions on the entitys financial and interests in the share capital of the Company set out position and financial performance: and on pages 113 to 153, are included in the Directors report, make an assessment of the Companys ability to which also includes the sections Strategic report to share continue as a going concern.
owners, What we think and Who runs WPP.
By Order of the Board: Marie Capes Company Secretary 15 April 2016 169 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Groups financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the period are included or excluded from the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
171 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Contingent consideration Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance separable corporate brand names, acquired customer with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Contingent relationships, acquired proprietary tools and capitalised consideration only applies to situations where contingent computer software not integral to a related item payments are not dependent on future employment of of hardware.
vendors and any such payments are expensed when they Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed relate to future employment.
to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including contingent consideration earnout agreements are initially intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
recorded at fair value which is the present value of the Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The obligations or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances are dependent on the future financial performance of the indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of interests acquired typically over a fourto five-year period goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash following the year of acquisition and assume the operating flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After The directors derive their estimates from internal business the projection period a steady growth rate representing an plans together with financial due diligence performed in appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded and is not subsequently reversed.
in the consolidated income statement within revaluation Corporate brand names, customer relationships and of financial instruments.
proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably Property, plant and equipment on initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less will flow to the Group.
accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
to have an indefinite economic life because of the The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
proven ability to maintain market leadership and profitable Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the operations over long periods of time and the Groups Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of commitment to develop and enhance their value.
The Assets in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
This carrying value of these intangible assets is reviewed at least process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable carrying value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated amount if required.
to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a as follows: straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years.
Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term Customer-related intangibles 3-10 years.
of the lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Other including capitalised computer software Computer equipment 3-5 years.
172 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our 2015 financial statements Accounting policies Interests in associates and joint ventures Trade receivables An associate is an entity over which the Group has Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and significant influence.
In certain circumstances, significant doubtful debts.
influence may be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation on the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency and interest rate hedging The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate undertakings net of tax, interest and non-controlling The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange interests is included in the consolidated income statement rate management sets out the instruments and methods and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interests available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on The Group uses derivative financial instruments to current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate financial instruments for speculative purposes.
undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, the date a derivative contract is entered into and are the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and The Group accounts for joint venture investments under effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing the equity method which is consistent with the Groups of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature treatment of associates.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Other investments and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Other investments are designated as available for sale Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an and are shown at fair value with any movements in fair ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging value taken to equity.
instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for the year.
Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated Inventory and work in progress and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion The effective portion of changes in the fair value of of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised and net realisable value.
immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial 173 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
