Our 2015 financial statements Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment procedures we obtained an understanding of and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls at Group level and at each of the full scope audit components that respond to the identified risks, in addition to performing the substantive audit procedures detailed below.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Revenue recognition accounting for media We have: The results of our testing volume income were satisfactory.
We Checked that management could demonstrate that consider the timing and Assessing the timing of recognition and valuation persuasive evidence exists in respect of the arrangement valuation of media of media volume income earned from media with the media owner at the time media volume income is volume income owners is an area of complexity and judgement recorded, and viewed this evidence on a sample basis.
recognised in the year due to the need for management to determine at Challenged the timing of recognition and valuation of to be reasonable.
what point persuasive evidence of agreement media volume income earned from media owners by with the media owner exists and to interpret the understanding the rationale for income recognised in the variety of language used in the underlying current year in respect of media investment activity in prior contractual terms with media owners.
periods and verifying the accounting for arrangements that Assessing the valuation of media volume income are non-coterminous with the Groups year end.
is also an area of complexity with regards to Assessed managements interpretation of contractual terms whether the media volume income is required to with media owners and clients in determining the valuation be passed back to the client and on what basis to of media volume income and determined whether calculate such passback.
Given the complexity consistent judgement has been applied year on year.
and judgement involved the timing of recognition Assessed the ageing of balance sheet provisions for the pass and the valuation of media income are back of media volume income to clients and challenged considered to be key audit risks.
management where brought forward provisions had been Refer to page 118 Review of the Audit released.
Committee and page 174 accounting policy.
Analysed and understood the trend of media volume income recognised against prior year activity.
Goodwill We have: The results of our testing were satisfactory and Given the magnitude of the goodwill balance Challenged the key assumptions used in the impairment we concur that the and the continued economic uncertainty in model for goodwill, including specifically the operating assumptions used in certain regions, it is important to ensure that the cash flow projections, discount rates, and long term growth the impairment model, goodwill impairment review is approached in a rates.
The key assumptions used for estimating cash flow including the discount robust manner to identify potential impairments, projections in the Groups impairment testing are those rate, and level of where necessary.
relating to revenue growth and operating margin.
goodwill impairment Determining whether the carrying value of Compared these assumptions to externally derived data booked in the year goodwill is recoverable requires management where applicable as well as forming our own assessment.
to make significant estimates concerning the Our internal fair value specialists assisted in computing estimated future cash flows and associated an independent assessment of the discount rates used discount rates and growth rates based on and assessing the methodology used in preparing the managements view of future business prospects.
The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given Tested the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the the magnitude of the goodwill balance 2015: impairment model.
10,671 million, 2014: 9,979 million, and the relative sensitivity to certain inputs to the Considered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model impairment testing process, in particular the to changes in key assumptions.
discount rate, the valuation of goodwill is We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures considered a key audit risk.
in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether Refer to page 118 Review of the Audit disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment Committee, page 172 accounting policy assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and page 194 financial disclosures.
properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
