Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or isforward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or that could cause actual results to differ materially from those activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
Forwardlegal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules, looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, statement, whether as a result of new information, future events discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in market conditions and pressures on margins, changes in the inaccordance with such laws.
level oflitigation, employee motivation, the performance and resilience ofthe Companys systems and infrastructure, the level ofgovernment regulation and financial risks such as fluctuations inexchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forwardlooking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only attheir respective dates.
Credits Printing Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed by Pureprint Group.
The printing inks are made with non-hazardous www.
com vegetable oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place Photography by George Brooks, Henry Thomas, Bill Robinson and Andy Wilson forallother waste associated with this production.
Pureprint Group is FSC with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
Paper The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper and cover Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through The Gold Standard board, with Amadeus 100 offset used inthe financial section.
Basa Magogo offsetting project in South Africa.
Amadeus 50 Silk is made from 25 per cent fide-inked postconsumer waste, 25 per centunprinted pre-consumer The first Gold Standard project of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviourwasteand 50 per centvirgin fibre.
change programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal differently in order to be more fuel efficient, thereby reducing carbon emissions.
Amadeus 100 offset is made from 100 per cent fide-inked The technique, called Basa Magogo, means Light it up!
Both products arefully biodegradable In addition to the emission reductions, the Basa Magogo technique also improves and recyclable and produced inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 visibility and reduces health risks by producing less smoke.
Wolseley plc 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Wolseley plc Registered Office 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
com Follow us on Twitter @wolseleyplc
