Financial Statements 135 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2015 1 Accounting policies WS Atkins plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, including the application of new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 that applies to companies reporting under IFRS, and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC or IFRIC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under critical accounting policies and are incorporated by reference in the Business Review on pages 46 to 47.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure New and amended standards adopted by the Group There were no standards adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2014 that had a material impact on the Group.
The following IFRS and international accounting standards IASs and IFRIC interpretations have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2014 and do not have a material impact on the Group: IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11, Joint arrangements IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRIC 21, Levies Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment entities IAS 32, Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IAS 36, Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets IAS 39, Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting.
Under IFRS 10, subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group has power over an entity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The adoption of IFRS 10 has had no significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures, depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement.
Before 1 April 2014, the Groups interests in jointly controlled entities were accounted for using the equity method.
Under IFRS 11, some of the Groups jointly controlled entities have been assessed to be joint operations.
The Group has applied the new policy for its interests in joint operations in accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 11.
The Group recognised its investment in the assets and liabilities relating to the joint operation, by disaggregating them from the carrying amount of the investment used in applying the equity method.
In respect of its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The Group has an interest in several joint arrangements.
Under IAS 31, some of these joint arrangements were assessed as jointly controlled entities and were equity accounted.
The Group has reassessed the classification of all its joint arrangements under IFRS 11.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 136 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Based on the facts and circumstances of each joint arrangement, it was assessed that the Group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities in certain of its joint arrangements and they have therefore now been classified as joint operations.
Following the adoption and application of IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, the Consolidated Income Statements and the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 March 2014 have not been restated, as the restatement was not material.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014 and the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity balances as at 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 have also not been restated, as the impact on these was not considered material.
In addition, the Group has reviewed its reporting of joint operations and joint ventures, and has amended its definition of revenue for segmental reporting purposes to exclude the Groups share of revenue from joint ventures.
As a consequence of the adoption of IFRS 11 and the review of revenue reporting, the segmental results and assets of the operating segments for the year ended 31 March 2015 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 11 and this amended definition of revenue.
The segmental results and assets for the comparative year ended 31 March 2014 have not been restated, as the changes were not considered material.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities.
IFRS 12 sets out the disclosure requirements in the financial statements in respect of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
The key additional disclosure, above those already required under existing standards, is that additional information is required on the nature, risks and financial effects of the Companys interest in other entities, particularly where there are special purpose entities SPEs or other entities that are not consolidated.
Further disclosure is required about the significant judgements and assumptions made in determining the classification of the investments.
The Group did not hold any material interests in joint ventures and associates and therefore no additional disclosure has been provided.
IFRIC 21 clarifies that the obligating event that gives rise to a liability to pay a levy is the activity that triggers the payment of the levy, as identified by the legislation.
The adoption of IFRIC 21 has had no significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements for earlier periods or for the year ended 31 March 2015.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the Group The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either not been adopted by the European Union or were not yet effective in the European Union for the financial year beginning 1 April 2014: IFRS 9, Financial instruments IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities: Applying the consolidation exemption IFRS 11, Accounting for acquisitions of interests in a joint operation IAS 1, Disclosure initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 16 and IAS 41: Agricultural: Bearer plants IAS 19, Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions IAS 27, Equity method in separate financial statements The Group is currently assessing the impact of the new standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The directors have made initial assessments of the impact of IFRS 15 and do not expect any material quantitative impact to the Group.
The Group will carry out a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure that the impact and effect of the new standard is fully understood and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted and acted upon in advance of the effective date.
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and interpretations earlier than required.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 137 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of joint ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of any non-controlling interest.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is lower than the fair value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on finalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Groups, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
Joint arrangements The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is an arrangement over which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either joint ventures or joint operations.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in the joint venture are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 138 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Joint operations A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement, or that other facts and circumstances indicate that this is the case.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows are combined with the equivalent items in the Financial Statements on a line-by-line basis.
Employee benefit trusts EBTs The accounts of the EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Groups recommendations on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees are normally followed.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in the Company held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained earnings.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income, for example, as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the Groups presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated at average exchange rates all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief executive officer CEO and the Group finance director.
The Groups operating segments for management purposes reflect predominantly its key geographical markets.
The segments are: United Kingdom and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as they are the main determinants of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the UK to be its country of domicile.
Intersegment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long-term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 139 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Underlying profit Underlying operating profit is profit before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets recognised on acquisition and material transaction costs associated with acquisitions, and relates to continuing operations.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract in which case the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
The Group enters into a number of different forms of contracts with clients, the most common being fixed price lump sum contracts and time and materials contracts based on hourly rates.
Some of the fixed price lump sum contracts may be linked to the capital cost of works or a profit loss sharing mechanism pain gain mechanism.
Revenue is recognised on the majority of the Groups contracts on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Under the percentage completion method, the percentage of the total forecast revenue reported at any point in time is calculated based upon the proportion of total costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs or, in some cases, based upon the estimated physical per cent complete of the total work to be performed under the contract.
In some cases, a margin provision is then made, depending on how far progressed each project is and the risk profile of the project.
In addition, provision is made in full for estimated losses and, where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the Balance Sheet and charged to the Income Statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any special purpose company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the Income Statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the Income Statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the Income Statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the Income Statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the Financial Statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 140 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined contribution DC and defined benefit DB pension plans.
A DC plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A DB plan is a pension plan that typically defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For the DB plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reflected immediately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs.
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
DB pension costs are categorised as follows: service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements administrative expenses net interest expense or income remeasurement.
The net retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represent the actual deficit in the Groups defined benefit plan.
For DC plans, the Group pays contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in the future payments is available.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity and cash settled share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options or cash phantom allocations of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded is charged to the Income Statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In the case of equity settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the Income Statement are included in retained earnings accumulated losses until the awards are exercised.
In the case of cash settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the Income Statement are held as a liability in the Balance Sheet until the awards are transferred, at which point a cash amount based on the Companys share price at the vesting date is paid to the employee.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares, any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs, any proceeds are credited to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 141 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the Income Statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures, except where it is known that the earnings will be distributed.
Deferred tax assets of 3.5m 2014: 3.7m have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of timing of utilisation.
Research and development R&D All R&D expenditure is written off to the Income Statement as incurred.
In the UK, the Group has early adopted the new UK R&D expenditure credit regime with effect from 1 April 2013.
These credits have characteristics more akin to government grants than income taxes and therefore are offset against the relevant expenditure in the Income Statement rather than via the tax charge.
The credits are recognised to the extent that there is reasonable assurance that they will be received, albeit that the claim process takes place sometime after the original expenditure was incurred.
In the Balance Sheet, the debtor is included within current other receivables.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the Companys interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment.
Prior to adoption of IFRS from 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and is subject to impairment reviews.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business acquisition is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 142 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, that are separable from goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets, and do not fall within the Groups other classes of intangible assets.
These comprise principally existing customer relationships which may give rise to future orders customer relationships, and existing order books backlog orders.
Acquired customer relationships are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and have a finite useful life.
Amortisation of customer relationships is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of customer relationships over their estimated useful lives of between one and 20 years.
Acquired customer relationships are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Backlog orders are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their estimated useful lives of up to three years.
Backlog orders are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the software licences over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modifications are expensed in the Income Statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the corporate information systems over their estimated useful life of six years.
Corporate information systems are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Trade names and trademarks Trade names and trademarks have arisen on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses and are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have a finite useful life, amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of trade names and trademarks over their estimated useful lives.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have an indefinite useful life, they are not subject to amortisation: they are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, as detailed within the impairment of non-financial assets section below.
Trade names and trademarks are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight line method to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short term leasehold property over the life of the lease Plant, machinery and vehicles three to 12 years.
The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 143 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash flows CGUs.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the mid market price.
These instruments are included in Level 1, see note 19.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2, see note 19.
The fair value of financial instruments for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs are Level 3 financial instruments, see note 19.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date, in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and other receivables in the Balance Sheet.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 144 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income Statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the investments has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the Income Statement as part of finance income.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets Assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtor, or a group of debtors, is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
Any impairment is charged to the Income Statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
For other receivables carried at amortised cost, impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Assets classified as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Group uses the criteria referred to above.
If any evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 145 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out method.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash flow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash flow is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment at the leases commencement and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight line basis.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 146 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash flows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
The pre-tax rate used reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
2 Segmental information The CODM has been identified as the CEO and the Group finance director.
The CEO and the Group finance director review the Groups internal reporting to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
Details of the business activities and the economic environment in which each segment operates are given in the Business Review on pages 25 to 44.
The CEO and the Group finance director assess the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit before interest and tax.
Information provided to the CEO and the Group finance director is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Financial Statements.
The Group has interests in several joint arrangements.
As detailed in note 1, under IAS 31, some of these joint arrangements were assessed as jointly controlled entities and were equity accounted.
The Group has assessed the classification of all its joint arrangements following the adoption of IFRS 11, Joint arrangements.
Some of these jointly controlled entities have now been classified as joint operations and the Group has accounted for its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of these joint operations.
As a consequence of the adoption of IFRS 11 and the review of revenue reporting, the segmental results and assets of the operating segments have been prepared to reflect these changes.
The segmental results and assets for the comparative year ended 31 March 2014 have not been restated, as the impacts were not considered material.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 147 Notes to the Financial Statements continued a Group business segments Revenue and results Share of post-tax Inter loss profit External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit loss margin ventures 2015 m m m m % m United Kingdom and Europe 872.4 31.4 903.8 60.7 6.7 0.4 North America 340.4 1.0 341.4 20.0 5.9 Middle East 238.2 21.5 216.7 22.5 10.4 Asia Pacific 102.1 7.6 109.7 9.8 8.9 Energy 200.5 18.5 182.0 20.4 11.2 0.5 Total for segments 1,753.6 1,753.6 133.4 7.6 0.1 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 0.1 Unallocated central items 3.0 3.0 14.8 Total for Group 1,756.6 1,756.6 118.5 6.7 0.1 Share of post-tax Inter profit loss External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit loss margin ventures 2014 m m m m % m United Kingdom and Europe 976.5 21.8 998.3 62.6 6.3 0.2 North America 379.0 1.9 380.9 19.1 5.0 0.1 Middle East 177.9 9.5 168.4 14.4 8.6 Asia Pacific 100.8 0.3 100.5 8.0 8.0 Energy 183.5 13.9 169.6 15.1 8.9 0.5 Total for segments 1,817.7 1,817.7 119.2 6.6 0.2 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 64.6 64.6 0.2 Unallocated central items 3.0 3.0 5.7 2.6 Total for Group 1,750.1 1,750.1 113.7 6.5 2.4 Unallocated central items comprise 6.9m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ, Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd. Confluence, Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc. NSA, Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC HOE and Terramar AS Terramar see note 15 : impairment of goodwill for the European aerospace business of 2.8m see note 14 : 4.4m of external fees in relation to the pursuit of an unsuccessful acquisition see note 10 : 1.5m of deferred payment arising on the acquisition of HOE see note 9 : release of 3.0m provision relating to the previously disposed of Asset Management business and 2.2m settlement of longstanding enquiries by the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission see note 35.
Unallocated items for the year ended 31 March 2014 include a 3.0m provision relating to the previously disposed of Asset Management business and 2.7m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisitions of PBSJ and Confluence see note 15.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 148 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests: 2015 2014 m m Operating profit 118.5 113.7 Net profit on disposal of businesses 0.4 10.5 Income from other investments 2.2 1.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 0.1 2.4 Profit before interest and tax 121.2 127.8 Finance income 4.8 4.2 Finance costs 19.3 17.8 Net finance costs 14.5 13.6 Profit before tax 106.7 114.2 Income tax expense 21.0 17.9 Profit for the year 85.7 96.3 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 85.7 96.0 Non-controlling interests 0.3 85.7 96.3 Balance Sheet Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2015 m m m m m m United Kingdom and Europe 521.8 293.7 228.1 3.7 30.0 15.2 North America 300.6 77.2 223.4 2.5 4.1 Middle East 152.0 94.0 58.0 2.0 1.4 Asia Pacific 61.6 41.9 19.7 0.7 0.7 Energy 141.1 30.2 110.9 0.1 45.3 1.0 Total for segments 1,177.1 537.0 640.1 3.8 80.5 22.4 Group items: Unallocated central items 24.3 459.4 435.1 9.7 Total for Group 1,201.4 996.4 205.0 3.8 80.5 32.1 Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2014 m m m m m m United Kingdom and Europe 544.1 280.8 263.3 4.2 12.1 11.4 North America 287.7 71.4 216.3 0.6 3.4 4.7 Middle East 102.1 51.2 50.9 0.7 1.3 Asia Pacific 59.0 43.1 15.9 6.6 1.5 Energy 74.4 28.1 46.3 0.6 0.7 0.6 Total for segments 1,067.3 474.6 592.7 4.2 23.5 19.5 Group items: Unallocated central items 12.9 475.4 462.5 2.7 Total for Group 1,080.2 950.0 130.2 4.2 23.5 22.2 Assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segments and the physical location or territory of the asset or liability.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 149 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group cash balances: derivative financial instruments: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: centrally managed joint ventures: and corporate assets are not considered to be segment assets as they are managed centrally.
Consequently they are shown within unallocated central items.
Similarly, post-employment benefit liabilities: bank loans and private placement debt: derivative financial instruments: central tax provisions: and corporate liabilities are not considered to be segment liabilities as they are managed centrally.
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
b Group geographical segments External revenue is measured by location of operation.
There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location of operation and by location of customer.
Outside the UK, only the Groups business in the United States US contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue or non-current assets.
c Major customers In 2015 revenue of approximately 191.0m is derived from one single external customer, which represents over 10% of the Groups total revenue.
This revenue is attributable to the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment.
In 2014 revenue from the UK Government represents approximately 181.1m of the Groups total revenue and is included within the UK and Europe and Energy operating segments.
3 Joint ventures Aggregate financial information for all individually immaterial joint ventures.
Income Statement continuing operations Group 2015 2014 m m Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 0.1 2.4 Balance Sheet 2015 2014 m m Investments in joint ventures 3.8 4.2 The Groups principal joint ventures are detailed in note 40.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 150 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4 Operating profit analysis of costs by nature Group 2015 2014 Note m m Operating profit is arrived at after charging crediting : Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 15 13.0 7.5 Impairment of goodwill 14 2.8 Deferred acquisition payments 9 1.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 16.3 14.7 Employee benefit costs 5 940.8 924.3 Impairment of trade receivables reversal of impairment increase in provisions 23 14.4 11.3 release of provisions 23 10.4 10.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Loss on sale of intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Net foreign exchange gains losses 1.1 0.8 Payments under operating leases 56.3 53.2 Receipts under operating leases 4.0 3.4 Research and development expenditure credit RDEC 5.0 Company operating profit was arrived at after generating nil of realised profit on disposal of investments 2014: nil.
Services provided by the Groups auditor During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor: Group 2015 2014 m m Statutory audit of the Company and Group Financial Statements 0.3 0.3 The audit of the Financial Statements of Group companies pursuant to legislation: UK 0.4 0.4 Non-UK 0.6 0.7 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit services 1.4 1.5 Taxation compliance services 1.0 0.8 Taxation advisory services 0.1 Other 1.2 0.1 Total other services 2.2 1.0 Total 3.6 2.5 Included in other non audit services are 1.1m of costs in relation to an unsuccessful acquisition pursuit see note 10.
The fee for the statutory audit of the Companys Annual Financial Statements was 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
0.4m of other services were provided to the Company by the Groups auditor 2014: none.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 151 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Employee benefit costs Monthly average Year end 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number Number Number Number Number of full time equivalent people including executive directors, but excluding agency staff employed by the Group By segment: United Kingdom and Europe 9,064 9,002 9,286 8,858 North America 2,792 2,970 2,731 2,836 Middle East 2,039 1,982 2,168 2,061 Asia Pacific 1,381 1,167 1,352 1,322 Energy 1,550 1,331 1,723 1,365 Corporate 81 78 80 77 Total for Group 16,907 16,530 17,340 16,519 Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to: Group 2015 2014 Note m m Wages and salaries, including restructuring costs 819.4 804.2 Social security costs 64.2 64.6 Defined benefit current service cost 29 2.2 2.1 Charge for defined contribution schemes 29 39.8 37.9 Other post-employment benefit costs 29 3.9 5.3 Share-based payments 32 11.3 10.2 940.8 924.3 Wages and salaries include 3.5m of restructuring costs 2014: 3.5m relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration including retirement benefits and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration Report, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 38.
6 Net finance costs Group 2015 2014 Note m m Interest payable on borrowings 3.3 3.4 Unwinding of discount on vacant property 28 0.1 0.1 Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 19 0.1 Net finance costs on net post-employment benefit liabilities 29 14.3 12.6 Other finance costs 1.5 1.7 Finance costs 19.3 17.8 Interest receivable on short term deposits 1.1 1.0 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.6 0.1 Interest receivable on loan notes 2.5 3.1 Other finance income 0.6 Finance income 4.8 4.2 Net finance costs 14.5 13.6 Company net finance costs were 1.3m 2014: 2.6m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 152 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7 Income tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year Group 2015 2014 Note m m Current income tax current tax on profits for the year 28.1 7.1 adjustment in respect of prior years 0.3 2.0 Deferred income tax 18 origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.5 9.7 effect of changes in tax rates 0.3 3.1 Income tax charged to Income Statement 21.0 17.9 Adjust for: taxation on net profit on disposal of businesses 0.1 1.5 taxation on exceptional items 0.5 taxation on impairment of goodwill taxation on amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.5 0.8 taxation on deferred acquisition payments 0.6 Underlying income tax expense 24.5 20.2 Profit before tax per Income Statement 106.7 114.2 Adjust for: net profit on disposal of businesses 0.4 10.5 exceptional items 4.4 impairment of goodwill 2.8 amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 6.9 2.7 deferred acquisition payments 1.5 Underlying profit before income tax 121.9 106.4 Effective income tax rate 19.7% 15.7% Underlying effective income tax rate 20.1% 19.0% b Factors affecting income tax rate The income tax rate for the year is lower 2014: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% 2014: 23%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2015 2014 % % UK statutory income tax rate 21.0 23.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.8 0.3 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 2.6 2.5 Effect of share-based payments 0.7 0.1 Tax on joint ventures 0.9 Research and development tax credits 1.1 6.0 Losses not previously recognised for tax 4.2 5.5 Effect of change in tax rates 0.3 2.7 Other 0.2 0.5 Effective income tax rate 19.7 15.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 153 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The underlying income tax rate for the year is lower 2014: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% 2014: 23%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2015 2014 % % UK statutory income tax rate 21.0 23.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 1.0 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 3.0 3.4 Effect of share-based payments 0.6 0.1 Tax on joint ventures 1.0 Research and development tax credits 1.0 6.4 Losses not previously recognised for tax 3.7 3.3 Effect of change in tax rates 0.2 2.9 Other 0.1 0.7 Underlying effective income tax rate 20.1 19.0 The main rate of corporation tax in the UK as at 31 March 2015 was 21%.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 20% was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and is effective from 1 April 2015. c Income tax on components of other comprehensive income The tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2015 m m m At 1 April 55.9 0.9 56.8 Deferred income tax 5.5 5.5 Current income tax 4.0 0.9 3.1 At 31 March 54.4 54.4 Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2014 m m m At 1 April 49.5 0.2 49.7 Deferred income tax 6.4 6.4 Current income tax 0.7 0.7 At 31 March 55.9 0.9 56.8 8 Net profit on disposal of businesses 2015 2014 Group m m Loss profit on disposal of businesses WS Atkins Polska Sp.
0.1 UK highways services 0.5 13.0 UK highways services transaction costs released 0.6 Transfer of ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. 3.1 Net profit on disposal 0.4 10.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 154 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued WS Atkins Polska Sp.
On 11 September 2014 the sale of the Groups Polish business, WS Atkins Polska Sp.
z o. o. to Multiconsult AS was completed.
Multiconsult AS is a Norwegian multidisciplinary consultancy and design business.
The business was sold for a net cash consideration of 3.5m 2.8m.
While the assets and liabilities of the Polish business represent a disposal group, the business has not been reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2015 as it does not represent a major line of business.
The Polish business has been reported in the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment note 2.
2015 m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 2.8 Disposal consideration 2.8 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Deferred income tax assets 0.7 Trade and other receivables 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 4.9 Trade and other payables 5.5 Net assets 2.3 Profit on disposal before costs 0.5 Disposal costs incurred 0.6 Loss on disposal 0.1 UK highways services On 27 February 2013 contracts were exchanged to dispose of the Groups UK highways services business, which formed part of the UK highways and transportation business, to Skanska Construction UK Limited Skanska, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 16.0m subject to certain completion adjustments, together with a deferred conditional amount of 2.0m.
The profit on disposal of these items was included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2014.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 a portion of the available deferred consideration was received, totalling 0.5m.
At 31 March 2013, disposal costs of 3.8m were provided for, comprising transaction costs of 2.4m and restructuring costs of 1.4m.
Following the conclusion of this transaction in October 2013, 0.6m of the restructuring costs were not required and were subsequently released at 31 March 2014.
The profit on disposal before tax recognised at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 is shown below.
2015 2014 m m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 16.0 Deferred consideration received 0.5 Disposal consideration 0.5 16.0 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Property, plant and equipment 5.1 Share of joint venture net assets 0.2 Inventories 1.0 Borrowings 4.7 Net assets 1.6 Profit on disposal before costs 0.5 14.4 Disposal costs incurred 1.4 Profit on disposal 0.5 13.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 155 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. On 30 August 2013 the transfer of the ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. Peter Brown to Moss & Associates, LLC Moss was completed.
The business was transferred for a cash consideration payable to Moss of US$4.0m 2.6m.
The loss on disposal before tax was US$4.8m 3.1m and is shown below.
The disposal of Peter Brown was not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2014 as it did not represent a major line of business.
The Peter Brown business has been reported in the North America operating segment note 2.
2014 US$m m Net consideration paid or payable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 4.0 2.6 Disposal consideration 4.0 2.6 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Trade and other receivables 0.3 0.2 Net assets 0.3 0.2 Loss on disposal before costs 4.3 2.8 Disposal costs incurred 0.5 0.3 Loss on disposal 4.8 3.1 9 Business combinations Terramar AS Terramar On 17 November 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Terramar, one of Norways leading project management consultancies.
Terramar has been involved in the planning and implementation of some of Norways most high profile projects.
The company has 65 employees providing project management services across infrastructure, health, urban development and communications.
Terramar has unique project management skills and a well-established client base in both the public and private sector in Norway.
The acquisition will raise our skills in project management and our presence in Norway, bringing the capacity, skills and knowledge to enable us to bid for major projects.
The initial accounting for this business combination has been determined provisionally and the Group has therefore accounted for the combination using provisional values.
Adjustments to these provisional values will be made within one year of the date of acquisition relating to facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The goodwill of 9.3m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the combined operation to provide an enhanced offering to clients and create a broader local presence in Norway.
The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 156 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The following table summarises the consideration paid for Terramar and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: Consideration at 17 November 2014 NOKm m Initial cash consideration 135.1 12.8 Total consideration 135.1 12.8 Fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: NOKm m Acquired customer relationships included in Intangible assets 24.0 2.3 Software licences included in Intangible assets 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Net retirement benefit asset 1.0 0.1 Trade and other receivables 36.4 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 31.6 3.0 Trade and other payables 46.7 4.4 Income tax liabilities 3.0 0.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 6.2 0.6 Total identifiable net assets 37.4 3.5 Goodwill 97.7 9.3 Total consideration 135.1 12.8 Acquisition-related costs of 0.1m have been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 3.4m and includes trade receivables of 3.0m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 3.0m, nil of which is expected to be uncollectable.
There were no contingent liabilities as at the date of acquisition.
The revenue and profit before tax included in the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 17 November 2014 contributed by Terramar were 6.1m and 0.2m respectively.
Had Terramar been consolidated from 1 April 2014, the Groups Consolidated Income Statement would show revenue of 1,762.3m and profit before tax of 107.6m.
Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC HOE On 1 October 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of HOE, a leading oil and gas offshore engineering business based in Houston, Texas, USA.
HOE employs a team of 150 specialists with vast experience in the design of offshore deep water floating production platforms.
The company also brings to the Group a well-established project and client base in the international oil and gas market.
HOEs key disciplines include platform structures and systems, naval architecture and marine engineering, power, electrical and instrumentation engineering, piping and topsides engineering.
The company works through all stages of the project design and construction lifecycle, from concept through front end engineering design and detailed engineering, project delivery, procurement and construction support, transport and installation.
The goodwill of 14.7m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the combined operation to provide an enhanced offering to clients and extend the reach to new markets in North America.
The goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 157 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The following table summarises the consideration paid for HOE and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: Consideration at 1 October 2014 US$m m Initial cash consideration 57.8 35.6 Completion working capital adjustment 0.6 0.4 Total consideration 58.4 36.0 Fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: US$m m Acquired customer relationships included in Intangible assets 16.4 10.1 Trade names and trademarks included in Intangible assets 10.0 6.2 Software licences included in Intangible assets 0.2 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 3.1 1.9 Trade and other receivables 10.3 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 0.6 Trade and other payables 6.4 4.0 Total identifiable net assets 34.6 21.3 Goodwill 23.8 14.7 Total consideration 58.4 36.0 Acquisition-related costs of 0.6m have been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2015.
In addition, US$14.6m 9.0m cash was paid into escrow and will be paid out to the vendors if they remain employed by the Group for the three years following the acquisition.
This amount is being amortised over the retention period as a post-acquisition employment expense.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, 1.5m has been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 6.4m and includes trade receivables of 2.9m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 2.9m, nil of which is expected to be uncollectable.
The revenue and profit before tax included in the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 October 2014 contributed by HOE were 10.0m and 0.7m respectively.
Had HOE been consolidated from 1 April 2014, the Groups Consolidated Income Statement would show revenue of 1,767.0m and profit before tax of 106.5m.
Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc NSA On 4 September 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of NSA, a 130 people engineering and technical services firm, for a debt-free cash consideration of US$14.0m approximately 8.5m with a further US$1m approximately 0.6m deferred for two years.
Contingent consideration is payable in cash to the former owners of NSA based on revenue and operating profit targets for the first three years from acquisition, followed by operating margin growth levels for the next two years.
The Group prepares detailed forecasts on the acquisition of a business and updates these on a quarterly basis as part of its normal operating processes.
These forecasts use managements evaluation of the revenue, costs and expected margins, based on past experience.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of 2.5m US$4.0m was calculated by estimating probable future cash flows payable and discounting these at a discount rate of 9.3%.
This is a Level 3 fair value measurement.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under this arrangement is between US$0 and US$10.2m approximately 6.2m.
NSA brings expertise in nuclear safety, design engineering and professional security services and has a well-established project and client base in the US nuclear market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 158 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The acquisition enhances the Groups presence in North America, the worlds largest nuclear market, and its safety and security skills will strengthen the Groups international nuclear offering.
The goodwill of 6.5m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the combined operation to provide an enhanced offering to clients and extend the reach to new markets in North America.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for NSA and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: Consideration at 4 September 2014 US$m m Initial cash consideration 14.0 8.5 Completion working capital adjustment 0.2 0.1 Fair value of deferred consideration 0.9 0.5 Fair value of contingent consideration 4.0 2.5 Total consideration 18.7 11.4 Fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: US$m m Acquired customer relationships included in Intangible assets 6.4 3.9 Trade names and trademarks included in Intangible assets 0.4 0.2 Trade and other receivables 3.3 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.3 Trade and other payables 2.6 1.5 Total identifiable net assets 8.0 4.9 Goodwill 10.7 6.5 Total consideration 18.7 11.4 Acquisition-related costs of 0.7m have been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 2.0m and includes trade receivables of 1.5m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 1.7m, 0.2m of which is expected to be uncollectable.
The revenue and profit before tax included in the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 4 September 2014 contributed by NSA were 7.1m and 0.4m respectively.
Had NSA been consolidated from 1 April 2014, the Groups Consolidated Income Statement would show revenue of 1,762.4m and profit before tax of 106.8m.
Ltd. Confluence On 3 October 2013 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Confluence, a Singapore-based project management business, for a debt-free cash consideration of Singapore $17.0m approximately 8.4m.
Confluence is an international consultancy employing around 200 people, offering services in the areas of project and construction management, and has operations in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and India.
Confluences teams in Singapore, Hong Kong, Abu Dhabi and India have integrated with the Groups existing operations in Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
The acquisition complements the Groups Faithful Gould project and cost management consultancy business and, in particular, augments its presence in the commercial, retail and hospitality sectors.
At 31 March 2014, the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business combination were determined on a provisional basis, pending finalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, adjustments to these provisional values can be made within one year of the date of acquisition relating to facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The position has now been finalised.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 159 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The goodwill of 5.7m arising from the acquisition was allocated to the Asia Pacific segment.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The goodwill is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the Groups combined operations to provide an enhanced offering to clients in Asia Pacific and the Middle East, which will augment its presence in the commercial, retail and hospitality sectors in particular.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Confluence and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Consideration at 3 October 2013 SGDm m Cash 17.0 8.4 Additional payment for assets 2.1 1.1 Total consideration 19.1 9.5 Fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: SGDm m Acquired customer relationships included in Intangible assets 3.0 1.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Non-current other receivables 0.5 0.2 Trade and other receivables 8.0 4.0 Cash 5.7 2.8 Trade and other payables 8.6 4.2 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 0.9 0.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.4 0.2 Total identifiable net assets 7.5 3.8 Goodwill 11.6 5.7 Total consideration paid 19.1 9.5 Acquisition-related costs of 0.6m have been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 4.0m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 3.2m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 3.3m, 0.1m of which is expected to be uncollectable.
The revenue included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 3 October 2013 to 31 March 2014 contributed by Confluence was 8.7m.
Confluence also contributed profit before tax of 0.8m over the same period.
Had Confluence been consolidated from 1 April 2013, the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2014 would show revenue of 1,759.1m and profit before tax of 115.1m.
10 Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
An analysis of the amount presented as an exceptional item in these Financial Statements is given below: Group 2015 2014 m m Exceptional external fees in relation to unsuccessful acquisition pursuit 4.4 The exceptional external fees are included within administrative expenses in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 160 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Dividends Company and Group 2015 2014 2015 2014 pence pence m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 23.25 22.00 22.7 21.4 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014 11.00 10.50 10.7 10.3 Dividends recognised in the year 34.25 32.50 33.4 31.7 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014 11.00 10.50 10.7 10.3 Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014 25.50 23.25 24.8 22.7 Dividends relating to the year 36.50 33.75 35.5 33.0 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2015, one employee benefit trust EBT had an agreement in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on 213,461 ordinary shares 2014: 213,461.
A separate EBT also had an agreement in place as at 31 March 2015 to waive future dividends in their entirety on 2,730,695 ordinary shares 2014: 2,311,202.
These arrangements reduced the dividends paid in year by 0.8m 2014: 0.8m.
As at 31 March 2015, 4,341,000 ordinary shares 2014: 4,341,000 were held by the Group as treasury shares on which no dividends are paid.
These shares reduced the dividends paid in year by 1.5m 2014: 1.4m.
12 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the EBTs which have not unconditionally vested to the employees and shares held in treasury.
Diluted EPS is the basic EPS after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the number of options outstanding during the year.
The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Group 2015 2014 Number Number 000 000 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in basic and underlying basic EPS 97,573 97,547 Effect of dilutive securities share options 2,785 2,704 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and underlying diluted EPS 100,358 100,251 Note m m Earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 85.7 96.0 Exceptional external fees net of tax 10 3.9 Goodwill impairment net of tax 2.8 Amortisation of acquired intangibles net of tax 4.4 1.9 Deferred acquisition payments net of tax 0.9 Net profit on disposal of businesses net of tax 8 0.3 12.0 Underlying earnings 97.4 85.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 161 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2015 2014 pence pence Basic earnings per share 87.8 98.4 Diluted earnings per share 85.4 95.8 Underlying basic earnings per share 99.8 88.1 Underlying diluted earnings per share 97.1 85.7 13 Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The Company has not presented its own Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent was 34.7m 2014: 43.7m, which included 40.9m 2014: 45.4m of dividend income from subsidiary companies.
The Companys individual Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income were approved by the Board on 9 June 2015.
14 Goodwill Group 2015 2014 Note m m Cost at 1 April 212.1 220.2 Additions 9 30.5 5.7 Difference on exchange 13.3 13.8 Cost at 31 March 255.9 212.1 Aggregate impairment at 1 April 8.1 8.8 Impairment charge for the year 2.8 Difference on exchange 0.6 0.7 Aggregate impairment at 31 March 11.5 8.1 Net book value at 31 March 244.4 204.0 Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGU, or group of CGUs, that management has identified in order to carry out impairment tests.
The following is a summary of goodwill allocation by CGU or group of CGUs, summarised at the operating segment level: Group 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom and Europe 49.2 45.1 North America 144.7 131.0 Asia Pacific 5.6 5.5 Energy 44.9 22.4 Total 244.4 204.0 The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately when the carrying value of those assets exceeds their recoverable amount.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 162 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Recoverable amount Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the amount obtainable from the sale of a CGU or group of CGUs in an arms-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is assessed from an external perspective and value in use from a Group internal perspective.
Both are determined using a business valuation model, taking into account planned future cash flows.
If available, third-party valuations are taken as a basis for determining fair value.
Value in use calculations Methodology The internal value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on the following financial years budget approved by the Board, which is based on past performance and managements expectations of market developments.
The key assumptions in the budget relate to revenue and profit margins.
Budgeted revenue is based on managements knowledge of actual results from prior years, along with the existing committed and contracted workload, as well as managements future expectations of the level of work available within the market.
Profit margins are based on current margins being achieved in conjunction with economic conditions in the market or country of operation.
The cash flow projections from that budget are extrapolated for the next four years using an estimated growth rate and projected margin for all CGUs, or groups of CGUs, except for the North America operating segment.
The Groups formal five year plan is used for the North America segment as it provides a better indication of the future performance of the operation.
The growth rates used to extrapolate the budgets are between 1.9% and 3.8% and are based on the economic environment for the country or region in which the CGU operates.
As required by IAS 36, cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated based on the long term average growth rate for the primary country in which the CGU operates of between 1.8% and 3.8%.
These growth rates are derived from the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook published Gross Domestic Product GDP growth rates.
Projected margins reflect the historical and budgeted performance of the CGU.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
The cash flows have been discounted using the CGUs specific pre-tax discount rates of between 8.9% and 16.0%.
The discount rates have been calculated using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates are revised annually using updated market information.
Assumptions The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for the internal value in use calculations are as follows: Group 2015 2014 Five year growth rate 1.9% 3.8% 1.7% 5.4% Post five year growth rate 1.8% 3.8% 1.8% 5.3% Pre-tax discount rate 8.9% 16.0% 6.7% 17.9% Impairment loss Following the downturn in the European aerospace market, the carrying amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition in 2007 of the Dutch consultancy Atkins BV formerly Nedtech Engineering BV was reviewed during the period and, as a consequence has been reduced to its recoverable amount based on value in use calculations through the recognition of an impairment loss of 2.8m.
This impairment charge relates solely to goodwill and has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement within administrative expenses as an unallocated central item.
At the year end, the recoverable amount of the Groups CGU covering the European aerospace market was 3.4m which was determined using an internal value in use calculation, a key input to which is the Groups 2016 budget that has been extrapolated for the next four years using an estimated growth rate and projected margin.
The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for this calculation are as follows: Group 2015 2014 Five year growth rate 1.9% 2.0% Post five year growth rate 1.8% 2.0% Pre-tax discount rate 9.6% 11.2% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 163 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Sensitivities Goodwill of 144.7m 2014: 131.0m allocated to the North America operating segment includes 137.1m of goodwill arising on the acquisition of PBSJ.
This goodwill has been allocated to the North America group of CGUs and is considered significant in comparison with the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation, key inputs to which are the Groups 2016 budget and the formal five year plan for the North America segment, which covers the period to 2019.
The other assumptions used for this value in use calculation are the long term growth rate and the discount rate as follows: 2015 2014 Post five year growth rate 2.0% 2.2% Pre-tax discount rate 14.0% 13.5% Given the materiality of goodwill allocated to the North America group of CGUs, sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
The recoverable amount of the North America group of CGUs calculated based on value in use exceeds its carrying value by 87.5m.
The two assumptions to which these value in use calculations are most sensitive are projected profit margin and the discount rate.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to the profit margin it would need to fall by 215 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 14.0% to 18.6%.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation for the Groups CGU covering the European aerospace market.
The recoverable amount of the European aerospace market group of CGUs calculated based on value in use exceeds its carrying value by 0.9m.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to the profit margin, it would need to fall by 120 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 9.6% to 12.2%.
For the CGUs other than those disclosed above, management has considered the level of headroom resulting from the impairment tests.
Where appropriate, further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each CGU.
The analysis has indicated that no reasonably possible change in any individual key assumption would cause the carrying amount of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
As at 31 March 2015 and 2014, based on these valuations, the recoverable value of the remaining goodwill required no impairment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 164 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 Other intangible assets Group Acquired Corporate Trade customer information names and Software relationships systems trademarks licences Total Note m m m m m Cost at 1 April 2013 45.1 0.2 5.8 25.2 76.3 Additions 4.3 4.3 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 1.5 1.5 Disposals 2.0 4.6 2.3 8.9 Difference on exchange 3.8 0.8 4.6 Cost at 31 March 2014 40.8 0.2 1.2 26.4 68.6 Additions 1.0 4.4 5.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 16.3 6.4 0.1 22.8 Disposals 2.0 2.0 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 5.1 0.6 0.5 6.2 Cost at 31 March 2015 62.2 0.2 9.2 29.3 100.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 April 2013 15.9 0.2 5.8 14.8 36.7 Amortisation charge for the year 2.7 4.8 7.5 Disposals 2.0 4.6 2.2 8.8 Difference on exchange 1.5 0.7 2.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2014 15.1 0.2 1.2 16.7 33.2 1 Amortisation charge for the year 6.2 0.8 6.0 13.0 Disposals 1.9 1.9 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 1.9 0.1 0.4 2.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2015 23.2 0.2 2.1 21.1 46.6 Net book value at 31 March 2015 39.0 7.1 8.2 54.3 Net book value at 31 March 2014 25.7 9.7 35.4 1 Included in the amortisation of trade names and trademarks for 31 March 2015 is 0.7m in respect of acquired intangibles.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 4.9m 2014: 4.9m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010.
At 31 March 2015, the net book value of these backlog orders is nil 2014: nil and they are fully amortised.
The remaining amortisation life of the other assets included within acquired customer relationships is 14.5 years.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 1.2m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of NSA on 4 September 2014.
At 31 March 2015, the net book value of these backlog orders is 0.2m and their remaining amortisation life is 0.1 years.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 4.1m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of HOE on 1 October 2014.
At 31 March 2015, the net book value of these backlog orders is 1.5m and their remaining amortisation life is 0.25 years.
The amortisation charge for the year of 13.0m 2014: 7.5m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 165 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment Group Freehold Short term Plant, land and leasehold machinery buildings property and vehicles Total Note m m m m Cost at 1 April 2013 21.2 30.1 69.2 120.5 Additions 1.7 11.8 13.5 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.3 1.1 6.4 7.8 Difference on exchange 0.5 1.1 3.9 5.5 Cost at 31 March 2014 20.4 29.6 70.8 120.8 Additions 0.1 4.0 15.8 19.9 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 0.8 1.1 1.9 Disposals 1.4 7.1 8.5 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.3 Difference on exchange 1.0 1.3 3.1 5.4 Cost at 31 March 2015 21.5 34.3 83.4 139.2 Accumulated depreciation at 1 April 2013 8.2 19.3 42.3 69.8 Depreciation charge for the year 4 0.4 3.3 11.0 14.7 Disposals 0.7 6.2 6.9 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.6 2.8 3.5 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2014 8.5 21.3 44.3 74.1 Depreciation charge for the year 4 0.5 3.3 12.5 16.3 Disposals 1.3 7.1 8.4 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.2 0.2 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.9 2.8 3.8 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2015 9.1 24.2 52.3 85.6 Net book value at 31 March 2015 12.4 10.1 31.1 53.6 Net book value at 31 March 2014 11.9 8.3 26.5 46.7 The depreciation charge for the year of 16.3m 2014: 14.7m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
An independent valuation of the Groups freehold land and buildings was performed by valuers to determine their fair value at 31 March 2015.
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 20.1m 2014: 18.5m.
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows: 2015 2014 m m Cost 0.2 0.3 Accumulated depreciation 0.2 0.2 Net book value 0.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 166 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Investments in subsidiaries Company Total m Cost at 1 April 2013 195.2 Additions 6.6 Cost at 31 March 2014 201.8 Additions 8.6 Cost at 31 March 2015 210.4 Impairment at 1 April 2013, 31 March 2014 0.8 Impairment charge for the year 2.9 Impairment at 31 March 2015 3.7 Net book value at 31 March 2015 206.7 Net book value at 31 March 2014 201.0 The Groups principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 39.
18 Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and there is a legally enforceable right to settle tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The offset amounts are as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets: deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 75.7 81.2 deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 1.1 1.5 76.8 82.7 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 7.0 12.1 deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 3.1 3.4 10.1 15.5 Deferred tax assets net 66.7 67.2 Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
a Net deferred tax assets liabilities Group 2015 2014 m m Accelerated depreciation 7.8 7.3 Share-based payments 4.2 4.5 Goodwill 3.6 3.2 Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities 60.6 65.8 Deferred income 12.2 7.9 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 10.1 10.9 Other temporary differences 20.0 11.6 Total deferred income tax 66.7 67.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 167 Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Analysis of movements during the year Group 2015 2014 Note m m Deferred tax assets at 1 April 67.2 71.4 Transfers between current and deferred tax 0.9 Deferred tax credited charged to the Income Statement 7 6.8 12.8 Deferred tax on disposals discontinued operations 0.7 Deferred tax on acquisitions 9 0.6 0.2 Deferred tax charged credited to equity 6.1 7.5 Foreign exchange difference on deferred tax 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax assets at 31 March 66.7 67.2 The Finance Act 2013 enacted a reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
As the Finance Act 2013 had been enacted as at the Balance Sheet date, the impact of these reductions has been reflected in the movements in deferred tax as at 31 March 2014 and therefore 31 March 2015.
No further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate are currently proposed.
19 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Financial Review page 46.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk analyses, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates and UK interest rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement changes in the carrying value of other financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are generally unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups investments in foreign operations.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 168 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2015, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.4m 2014: 0.3m lower and equity would have been 0.4m higher 2014: 0.3m lower.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.5m 2014: 0.4m higher and equity would have been 0.5m lower 2014: 0.4m higher.
At 31 March 2015, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.4m 2014: 0.7m and equity would have been 0.4m lower 2014: 0.7m.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.5m 2014: 0.8m and equity would have been 0.5m higher 2014: 0.8m.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing bank loans.
The majority of these items are at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate results in changes in interest-related cash flows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2015 had been 10 basis points higher lower, post-tax profit for the year would have been approximately 0.2m 2014: 0.1m higher lower.
iii Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
To manage this risk, the Group diversifies its portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group.
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis.
The Group is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups Balance Sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Groups policy is that cash and investments should not be concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Groups broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated primarily by the use of advance payments resulting in positive cash flows.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention remains focused on the recovery of debtors.
There is no recent history of default.
c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups borrowing facilities include bank facilities and private placement debt.
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by a central finance department Group Finance.
Group Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities note 26 at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt financing plans and covenant compliance.
Any surplus cash is invested by Group Treasury in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the forecasts mentioned above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 169 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Group 2015 On demand Between Between or within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 61.1 61.1 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 5.3 50.2 60.5 Trade payables 66.3 66.3 2014 On demand Between Between or within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 55.4 55.4 1 Private placement debt 2.2 2.2 6.7 48.8 59.9 Trade payables 63.1 63.1 Company 2015 On demand Between Between or within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 61.1 61.1 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 5.3 50.2 60.5 Intercompany payables 65.9 65.9 2014 On demand Between Between or within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 55.4 55.4 1 Private placement debt 2.2 2.2 6.7 48.8 59.9 Intercompany payables 76.2 76.2 1 The contractual cash flows in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast contractual interest payments on those borrowings.
Interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the Balance Sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the Balance Sheet date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 170 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2015 2014 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 302.9 157.5 297.7 142.2 US dollar 127.3 7.3 111.9 13.1 UAE dirham 39.5 6.5 28.1 2.4 Qatari riyal 28.3 2.3 17.2 1.2 HK dollar 19.6 0.2 16.8 0.1 China RMB 19.4 0.4 19.6 0.4 Euro 14.5 1.3 18.3 0.8 Saudi Arabian riyal 12.6 0.6 11.4 0.9 Danish krone 6.5 0.2 9.1 0.9 Australian dollar 6.0 0.9 10.1 0.3 Swedish krona 2.7 0.4 5.6 0.5 Other 21.5 32.5 1.1 Total 600.8 177.6 578.3 163.9 The carrying value of the financial assets of the Company are denominated in US dollars 115.1m and sterling 54.3m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company are denominated in US dollars 111.2m and sterling 68.5m.
At 31 March 2014, the carrying value of the financial assets of the Company were denominated in US dollars 103.6m and sterling 62.1m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company at that date were denominated in US dollars 100.7m and sterling 78.6m.
Financial assets consist of loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in Consolidated Financial Statements : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in Consolidated Financial Statements : and borrowings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 171 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders and through its borrowing facilities.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of its net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
The ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying EBITDA as at 31 March 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Group 2015 2014 Note m m Total borrowings 26 111.3 100.8 Less: cash and cash equivalents 25 235.4 237.3 Net cash and cash equivalents 124.1 136.5 Net defined benefit pension deficit 29 298.4 324.2 Net deferred tax asset 18 66.7 67.2 Net debt plus net defined pension deficit net of total deferred tax 107.6 120.5 Profit before interest and tax 121.2 127.8 Add: depreciation 16 16.3 14.7 Add: amortisation and impairment 15 15.8 7.5 EBITDA 153.3 150.0 Less: net profit on disposal of businesses 0.4 10.5 Add: exceptional item 10 4.4 Add: deferred acquisition payments 10 1.5 Underlying EBITDA 158.8 139.5 Ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying EBITDA 0.7 0.9 Given the Groups current net funds position, the Board has not formally agreed a target ratio of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying EBITDA.
Total capital, as shown below, is calculated as equity as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet plus net debt.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents: Group 2015 2014 Note m m Total borrowings 26 111.3 100.8 Less: cash and cash equivalents 25 235.4 237.3 Net funds 124.1 136.5 Total equity 205.0 130.2 Total capital 80.9 6.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 172 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Fair value estimation The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2015 and 2014.
2015 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 2.5 2.5 0.4 0.4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Marketable securities Certificates of deposit 13.1 13.1 Fixed interest securities 20.9 20.9 4.6 4.6 Life insurance policies 3.1 3.1 2.6 2.6 Floating rate notes 5.5 5.5 6.5 6.5 UK treasury bills 3.9 3.9 4.7 4.7 Total assets 30.3 5.6 35.9 15.8 16.1 31.9 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.8 0.8 4.4 4.4 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Contingent consideration 2.8 2.8 Total liabilities 0.8 2.8 3.6 4.4 4.4 There have been no changes to the classification of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 at 31 March 2015 or 2014.
Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
The fair value of certificates of deposit is calculated as the present value of the future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate market rate of interest.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 173 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Level 3 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs are Level 3 financial instruments.
Level 3 valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs The main Level 3 inputs used by the Group in estimating the contingent consideration payment are based on revenue and operating profit targets for the first three years from acquisition, followed by operating margin growth levels for the next two years.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of 2.5m was calculated at the acquisition date by estimating probable future cash flows payable and discounting these at a discount rate of 9.3%.
Level 3 inter-relationship between significant unobservable inputs and fair value measurement The estimated fair value of the Level 3 financial instrument would increase if there was a change in either the annual revenue, annual operating profit or the risk-adjusted discount rate.
Level 3 sensitivity analysis A reasonable possible change to annual revenue and annual operating profit of 5% and a change of 100bps to the discount rate, holding other inputs constant, would not result in a significant change in the fair value.
Group 2015 2014 Note m m Assumed in a business combination 9 2.5 Loss included in net finance costs Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 6 0.1 Loss included in other comprehensive income Net difference on exchange 0.2 Balance at 31 March 2015 2.8 Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: the fair value of derivatives used for hedging are provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC, Barclays and Bank of America Merrill Lynch the fair value of all marketable securities, with the exception of life insurance policies, are provided by the financial institutions holding the Groups funds and investments the fair value of all life insurance policies are provided by the Groups insurance companies.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities As at 31 March 2015 Gross Net amounts amounts Gross of recognised of financial Related amounts not set off amounts financial assets in Balance Sheet of recognised assets liabilities financial liabilities presented assets set off the in the Financial Cash collateral Net liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet instruments received amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 2.5 2.5 0.6 1.9 Derivative financial liabilities 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 265.1 29.7 235.4 235.4 Credit balance 29.7 29.7 Total 237.1 237.1 237.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 174 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued As at 31 March 2014 Gross Net amounts amounts Gross of recognised of financial Related amounts not set off amounts financial assets in Balance Sheet of recognised assets liabilities financial liabilities presented assets set off the in the Financial Cash collateral Net liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet instruments received amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.3 Derivative financial liabilities 4.4 4.4 0.1 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 249.4 12.1 237.3 237.3 Credit balance 12.1 12.1 Total 233.3 233.3 233.3 20 Financial instruments Financial instruments by category Group 2015 Assets at fair value through Derivatives Loans and profit and used for receivables loss hedging Total Note m m m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Derivative financial instruments 21 2.5 2.5 Other receivables 22 20.7 20.7 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 23 449.0 449.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 24 33.4 33.4 Cash and cash equivalents 25 235.4 235.4 Total 705.1 33.4 2.5 741.0 Other Liabilities financial at fair value liabilities at through Derivatives amortised profit and used for cost loss hedging Total Note m m m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 26 111.2 111.2 Finance lease liabilities 26 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 21 0.8 0.8 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 27 293.2 1.0 294.2 Other non-current liabilities 30 1.8 1.8 Total 404.5 2.8 0.8 408.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 175 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group 2014 Assets at fair value through Derivatives Loans and profit and used for receivables loss hedging Total Note m m m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Derivative financial instruments 21 0.4 0.4 Other receivables 22 19.9 19.9 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 23 401.7 401.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 24 31.5 31.5 Cash and cash equivalents 25 237.3 237.3 Total 658.9 31.5 0.4 690.8 Other Liabilities financial at fair value liabilities at through Derivatives amortised profit and used for cost loss hedging Total Note m m m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 26 100.7 100.7 Finance lease liabilities 26 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 21 4.4 4.4 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 27 254.7 254.7 Total 355.5 4.4 359.9 Company 2015 Loans and receivables Total Note m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 23 169.6 169.6 Cash and cash equivalents Total 169.6 169.6 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total Note m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 26 111.2 111.2 Bank overdraft 26 2.6 2.6 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 27 65.9 65.9 Total 179.7 179.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 176 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Company 2014 Loans and receivables Total Note m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 23 165.7 165.7 Cash and cash equivalents Total 165.7 165.7 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total Note m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 26 100.7 100.7 Bank overdraft 26 2.4 2.4 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 27 76.2 76.2 Total 179.3 179.3 21 Derivative financial instruments The table below shows the fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value: Group 2015 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current 1.3 0.6 0.4 2.7 Later than one year and no later than two years 0.8 0.1 0.7 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.4 0.1 1.0 Non-current 1.2 0.2 1.7 Total 2.5 0.8 0.4 4.4 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Group 2015 2014 Buy Sell Buy Sell m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 7.5 6.9 1.0 1.0 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell EUR 9.9 10.8 7.0 7.1 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell Other 1.5 1.7 1.9 1.9 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell GBP 33.6 37.8 33.0 31.4 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell USD 23.7 25.2 13.5 14.5 The derivatives hedge highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency.
The gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 March 2015 will be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity derivative is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the derivative is less than 12 months.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 177 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of forward currency contracts at the year end: Group 2015 2014 Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net m m m m m m Current 39.7 39.0 0.7 26.7 29.1 2.4 Later than one year and no later than two years 22.7 22.0 0.7 11.5 12.1 0.6 Later than two years and no later than five years 15.5 15.2 0.3 14.2 15.1 0.9 Non-current 38.2 37.2 1.0 25.7 27.2 1.5 Total 77.9 76.2 1.7 52.4 56.3 3.9 The Group used derivative instruments to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts, as described in note 19.
All of the Groups financial instruments are classified as Level 2 under amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures.
A definition of Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 19.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated based on quoted forward currency rates at the Balance Sheet date.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are closely related to the host contract.
22 Other receivables Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Non-current assets: Loan notes receivable 19.8 19.9 Deferred finance costs 0.9 0.9 20.7 19.9 0.9 During the year the Group reduced interest-bearing loan notes by 0.1m in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2014: reduced by 0.1m, a company in which the Group has a 10% shareholding.
Under the terms of the Connect Plus M25 finance agreement, the Group was required to lend Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 20m over a period from May 2009 to October 2012.
This funding was lent on by Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited to Connect Plus M25 Limited, the main trading entity for the Connect Plus M25 project and the company which holds the 30 year PFI contract with the Highways Agency to design, build, fund and then operate and maintain the M25.
One of the subcontractors used by Connect Plus M25 Limited to deliver its main obligations under this project is Connect Plus Services.
The Groups interest in Connect Plus Services is disclosed in note 40 and Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited is considered a related party of the Group.
At 31 March 2015 the Group held 19.8m of interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2014: 19.9m.
These loan notes mature in 2039 and have a nominal interest rate of 12% per annum.
None of the other receivables are past due.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 178 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note m m m m Current assets: Trade receivables 335.0 305.8 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 29.2 23.9 Trade receivables net 305.8 281.9 Amounts recoverable on contracts 114.2 93.2 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 38 169.4 164.2 Amounts due from joint ventures 38 6.4 7.7 Deferred finance costs 0.2 1.2 0.2 1.2 Other receivables 22.4 17.7 0.3 Prepayments and accrued income 27.5 16.4 476.5 418.1 169.6 165.7 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value.
At 31 March 2015, 153.4m 2014: 156.8m of Group trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing.
At 31 March 2015, 121.0m 2014: 96.3m of Group trade receivables were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date and carried a provision for impairment of nil 2014: 0.3m.
These Group trade receivables of 121.0m 2014: 96.0m which were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
Group trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled 60.6m 2014: 52.7m and carried a provision for impairment of 29.2m 2014: 23.6m.
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m Provision for impairment at beginning of year 23.9 24.3 Increase in provisions 14.4 11.3 Release of provisions 10.4 10.0 Receivables written off as uncollectable 0.9 0.1 Difference on exchange 2.2 1.6 Provision for impairment at end of year 29.2 23.9 None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
At 31 March 2015, 0.5m of the Companys amounts due from subsidiary undertakings were fully provided against 2014: 0.5m, with an in year release of provisions of nil 2014: nil, see note 38.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 179 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In accordance with IFRS 7, disclosure is required for financial instruments that are measured in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
The Groups financial assets that are measured and recognised at fair value through profit or loss include certificates of deposit, fixed interest securities, life insurance policies, floating rate notes and UK treasury bills.
The Groups financial liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value include derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 21.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Group 2015 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Certificates of deposit 13.1 13.1 Floating rate notes 5.5 5.5 6.5 6.5 Fixed interest securities 20.9 20.9 4.6 4.6 UK treasury bills 3.9 3.9 4.7 4.7 Life insurance policies 3.1 3.1 2.6 2.6 Marketable securities 30.3 3.1 33.4 15.8 15.7 31.5 A definition of Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 19.
There have been no changes to the classification of financial assets between Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments at 31 March 2015 or 2014.
Changes in fair values of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include fair value gain of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m loss.
25 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 169.5 187.0 Short term bank deposits 65.9 50.3 235.4 237.3 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 0.6% 2014: 0.5%.
Included within cash at bank and in hand is 0.2m 2014: 2.2m held by the Companys EBTs.
26 Borrowings Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Current Bank loans 61.0 55.2 61.0 55.2 Bank overdraft 2.6 2.4 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 61.1 55.3 63.6 57.6 Non-current Private placement debt 50.2 45.5 50.2 45.5 50.2 45.5 50.2 45.5 Total 111.3 100.8 113.8 103.1 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 180 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows: Group and Company 2015 2014 m m Repayable: Later than one year and no later than two years Later than two years and no later than five years 50.2 Later than five years 45.5 50.2 45.5 The carrying amount of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2015 2014 Bank loans Bank loans and private and private placement Finance placement Finance debt leases Total debt leases Total m m m m m m Sterling US dollar 111.2 0.1 111.3 100.7 0.1 100.8 111.2 0.1 111.3 100.7 0.1 100.8 The Bank loans and private placement debt relate to the Company.
The total present value of minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m No later than one year 0.1 0.1 Later than one year and no later than five years 0.1 0.1 Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease payables 0.1 0.1 Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date.
The average effective borrowing rate for all finance leases was 12.6% 2014: 7.7% over a weighted average remaining period of 15 months 2014: 26 months.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m Later than one year and no later than two years Later than two years and no later than five years 138.1 141.5 All of the Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
On 30 January 2015 the Group amended and extended its five year revolving credit facility RCF.
This facility matures in January 2020.
This arrangement provides the Group with a committed credit facility of 200m.
This facility provides the Group with increased and longer-term financial capacity to support its strategy.
The total letters of credit in issue under the committed facility at 31 March 2015 were 0.9m 31 March 2014: 3.3m.
The facility includes the following lenders: Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, National Westminster Bank plc, National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Abbey National Treasury Services plc and United Overseas Bank Limited.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a number of undertakings and financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored.
As at 31 March 2015, and since, there have been no breaches 2014: none.
In the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Group raised US$75m through the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
The proceeds were used to repay drawn funds under the Groups existing banking facilities.
The private placement is due for repayment on 31 May 2019 and carries a nominal interest rate of 4.38%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 181 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Trade and other payables Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note m m m m Current liabilities: Trade payables 66.3 63.1 Fees invoiced in advance 181.6 155.5 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 38 65.9 76.2 Social security and other taxation 42.6 41.8 Contingent consideration on acquisitions 1.0 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 0.6 Accruals and deferred income 174.0 156.6 1.2 1.0 Other payables 44.7 36.1 510.8 453.1 67.1 77.2 The directors consider that the carrying values of the Groups trade and other payables approximate their fair value.
28 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Group 2015 2014 Vacant Vacant property property m m Current 0.8 0.8 Later than one year and no later than two years 1.0 1.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.9 1.8 Later than five years 0.7 0.4 Non-current 2.6 3.3 Total 3.4 4.1 Group Vacant property Note m Balance at 1 April 2014 4.1 Provisions charged to the Income Statement 2.7 Provisions released to the Income Statement 1.9 Provisions utilised 1.6 Unwinding of discount 6 0.1 Balance at 31 March 2015 3.4 The vacant property provision is discounted and is expected to be utilised over the next 11 years 2014: 12 years.
No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 182 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Post-employment benefit liabilities The Groups post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below: Group 2015 2014 m m Net retirement benefit liabilities 298.4 324.2 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 18.2 14.8 316.6 339.0 a Net retirement benefit liabilities The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Groups obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligation is to provide specified benefits on retirement.
The two main defined benefit schemes are the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes.
The assets of both schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, Terramar AS Pension Plan in Norway, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation.
Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
The Plan is closed to the future accrual of benefit: all defined benefit members of the Plan were transferred to a defined contribution section for future service where it was clear they did not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
The Railways Pension Scheme invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and as determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustees attitude to risk.
The majority of the Railways Pension Schemes assets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested in a single pooled growth fund.
This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion to vary the asset allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time.
The remaining assets in the Railways Pension Scheme are principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
The Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan was closed to future accrual of benefits for members who do not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension on 31 March 2009.
These members transferred to the Personal Retirement Savings Accounts Ireland PRSA Irish Life scheme with effect from 1 April 2009.
The Terramar AS Pension Plan was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2009.
It is a funded pension scheme and is managed by DNB Norways largest financial services group.
In order to obtain full pension entitlements, the scheme participants are required to complete 30 years of pensionable service prior to them obtaining the right to a life-long retirement pension corresponding to the difference between 66% of the employees salary at retirement and estimated benefits from the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme.
Economic and actuarial assumptions comply with prevailing technical recommendations in Norway.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are mostly closed to new entrants, who are offered membership of the defined contribution section.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 183 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Membership of the Groups principal pension schemes is as follows: Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Atkins Pension Plan Faithful Gould 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 No.
Members 5 5 180 201 7,630 7,163 897 935 Deferred pensioners 6,859 7,018 300 322 10,684 9,978 1,285 1,350 Pensioners 3,461 3,366 394 356 10,325 10,389 874 879 18,314 17,141 2,182 2,285 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme are listed in the table below: 2015 2014 Price inflation RPI 3.00% 3.50% CPI 2.00% 2.50% Rate of increase of pensions in payment Limited Price Indexation RPI-based 2.80% 3.20% Limited Price Indexation CPI-based 2.10% 2.50% Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50% Fixed 5.00% 5.00% Rate of increase in salaries Atkins Pension Plan 4.50% 5.00% Railways Pension Scheme uncapped 5.25% 5.75% Railways Pension Scheme RPI capped 3.00% 3.50% Railways Pension Scheme CPI capped 2.00% 2.50% Rate of increase for deferred pensioners Atkins Pension Plan 3.00% 3.50% Railways Pension Scheme 2.00% 2.50% Discount rate 3.50% 4.50% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 24.2 years 24.1 years Women 26.1 years 26.3 years Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners current age 45 Men 26.5 years 26.3 years Women 28.4 years 28.6 years The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Plan were the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS tables, with medium cohort improvements from 2002 to 2009 and a scaling factor of 0.85 0.90 for males females respectively.
Future improvements are based on Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI improvements with a 1.5% per annum improvement trend, based on year of use application.
The Railways Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 184 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The components of the pension cost are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Total charge 0.1 2.3 2.4 Net interest expense 10.9 2.6 0.1 13.6 Total charge to Income Statement for defined benefit schemes 11.0 4.9 0.1 16.0 Charge for defined contribution schemes 39.8 39.8 Total charge to Income Statement 11.0 4.9 39.9 55.8 Statement of Comprehensive Income Gain on pension scheme assets 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Changes in assumptions 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Remeasurements gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Deferred tax charged credited to equity 18 3.7 1.7 0.5 1.5 Remeasurements gain loss net of deferred tax 14.8 6.7 3.6 4.5 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Total charge 0.1 2.2 2.3 Net interest expense 9.4 2.5 0.1 12.0 Total charge to Income Statement for defined benefit schemes 9.5 4.7 0.1 14.3 Charge for defined contribution schemes 37.9 37.9 Total charge to Income Statement 9.5 4.7 38.0 52.2 Statement of Comprehensive Income Loss gain on pension scheme assets 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Changes in assumptions 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Deferred tax credited charged to equity 18 7.1 0.8 0.1 6.4 Remeasurements loss net of deferred tax 53.3 3.3 0.5 57.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 185 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,531.0 276.2 20.0 1,827.2 Fair value of plan assets 1,312.0 205.0 11.8 1,528.8 Retirement benefit liabilities 219.0 71.2 8.2 298.4 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Fair value of plan assets 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 Retirement benefit liabilities 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Other includes the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan, the Terramar AS Pension Plan and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director, for 1.2m 2014: 1.0m.
The Terramar AS Pension Plan had a net retirement asset of 0.1m at 31 March 2015.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2015 % m % m Equities 41.0 537.4 60.5 124.0 Government bonds 39.3 516.2 14.6 29.9 Corporate bonds 11.0 144.6 14.6 29.9 Property 2.9 37.5 10.0 20.6 Cash 0.4 5.7 0.3 0.6 Other 5.4 70.6 100.0 1,312.0 100.0 205.0 Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2014 % m % m Equities 44.7 466.6 61.3 113.2 Government bonds 31.2 325.2 14.3 26.4 Corporate bonds 12.8 133.8 14.4 26.5 Property 3.8 39.2 9.7 17.9 Cash 1.1 11.5 0.3 0.6 Other 6.4 67.2 100.0 1,043.5 100.0 184.6 The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets, of the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 186 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Business acquired 2.7 2.7 Service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 57.7 10.9 0.4 69.0 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive income 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefit payments 35.5 8.5 0.2 44.2 Difference on exchange 1.9 1.9 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,531.0 276.2 20.0 1,827.2 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,248.8 230.2 12.2 1,491.2 Service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 56.7 10.4 0.3 67.4 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefit payments 38.0 6.7 0.3 45.0 Difference on exchange 0.3 0.3 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 Business acquired 2.8 2.8 Interest return on plan assets 46.8 8.3 0.3 55.4 Employer contributions 32.1 2.8 0.4 35.3 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 35.5 8.5 0.2 44.2 Remeasurements gain recognised in other comprehensive income 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Difference on exchange 1.5 1.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,312.0 205.0 11.8 1,528.8 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Interest return on plan assets 47.3 7.9 0.2 55.4 Employer contributions 32.2 2.9 0.4 35.5 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 38.0 6.7 0.3 45.0 Remeasurements loss gain recognised in other comprehensive expense 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Difference on exchange 0.2 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 187 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the net retirement benefit liabilities are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Business acquired 0.1 0.1 Service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 10.9 2.6 0.1 13.6 Contributions 32.1 2.8 0.4 35.3 Remeasurements gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.4 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 219.0 71.2 8.2 298.4 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 220.9 56.4 4.7 282.0 Service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 9.4 2.5 0.1 12.0 Contributions 32.2 2.9 0.4 35.5 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Cumulative remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year 254.5 36.7 11.8 303.0 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Loss from change in financial assumptions 206.6 24.7 6.1 237.4 Experience gains 0.2 0.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Losses at the end of year 236.0 45.1 15.9 297.0 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year 194.1 34.2 11.2 239.5 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Loss from change in financial assumptions 41.2 7.2 1.2 49.6 Experience gains losses 6.7 0.5 6.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Return on plan assets less greater than discount rate 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Losses at the end of year 254.5 36.7 11.8 303.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 188 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The return on plan assets is as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 46.8 8.3 0.3 55.4 Experience gain on plan assets 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Actual return on plan assets 271.9 24.6 2.1 298.6 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 47.3 7.9 0.2 55.4 Experience loss gain on plan assets 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Actual return on plan assets 21.4 13.1 0.8 35.3 History of experience gains and losses: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total Total Total Total Total Experience gain loss on scheme assets 243.2m 20.1 m 106.4m 83.8m 2.5 m Percentage of scheme assets 15.9% 1.6 % 8.8% 7.8% 0.3 % Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 0.2m 6.2m 1.9 m 4.4m 43.8m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.1% 0.3 % 3.4 % Defined benefit obligation 1,827.2 m 1,560.5 m 1,491.2 m 1,329.8 m 1,282.1 m Fair value of plan assets 1,528.8m 1,236.3m 1,209.2m 1,078.7m 944.3m Net retirement benefit liabilities 298.4 m 324.2 m 282.0 m 251.1 m 337.8 m The Group completed its last triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 of the Atkins Pension Plan and is therefore due to complete its next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2016.
The Group considers that the contribution rates set at the recent valuation date are sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period.
The nature of the funding regime in the UK creates uncertainty around the size and timing of cash that the Company will be required to pay to the pension schemes.
The Group agreed a new repayment plan that ends in March 2025.
One-off payments of 32m were made for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
Payments for the year ending 31 March 2016 and onwards will escalate by 2.5% per annum from the 32m level.
The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2016 to be around 35.8m, of which 32.8m is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be around 1.5m.
Expected benefit payments made directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2016 are nil.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 189 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows: Change in assumption Effect on plan liabilities Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Discount rate increase decrease 0.5% decrease increase 10.0% decrease increase 8.5% Inflation increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 5.0% increase decrease 8.5% Real rate of increase in salaries increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 2.0% increase decrease 1.5% Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding change in salary increases and inflation-related pension increases.
b Other post-employment benefit liabilities The Group operates unfunded schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses, including gratuity schemes, Key Employee Supplemental Option Plans KESOP and post-retirement medical benefit schemes.
Members of the gratuity schemes are entitled to receive a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary.
Valuation of the gratuity obligation is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The Group operates a KESOP providing some key officers and employees in its North American business the business with post-retirement benefits, known as the Supplemental Income Program SIP.
The SIP is an unfunded plan that provides participants with retirement income for a specified period of between 5 and 15 years upon retirement, death or disability.
The plan fixes a minimum level for retirement benefits to be paid to participants based on the participants position in the business, their age and length of service at retirement.
Additionally, certain executive agreements have been amended to provide post-retirement medical benefits to those employees and their spouses, at a level substantially similar to those medical and hospitalisation benefits paid and provided to senior executives currently employed by the business.
The insurance benefits will be provided without any further or additional services from the employee to the business and they will be paid for and provided for as long as the employee and their spouse shall live.
Group 2015 2014 Note m m Other post-employment obligations at beginning of year 14.8 13.6 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 9 0.4 Current service cost and other comprehensive income 3.9 3.8 Past service cost and other comprehensive income 1.5 Interest cost 0.7 0.6 Net measurement gain loss recognised in the year 0.1 0.1 Benefit payments 3.2 3.8 Difference on exchange 2.1 1.4 Other post-employment obligations at end of year 18.2 14.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 190 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benefits are listed in the table below: 2015 2014 Gratuity scheme Discount rate 5.00% 5.00% Salary inflation 3.00% 3.00% Average remaining service period 2 years 2 years KESOP scheme Discount rate 1.10% 1.05% Medical plan Discount rate 3.55% 4.00% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 7.50% 7.50% Rate of decline of cost trend rate 5.00% 5.00% Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate 2023 2022 c Post-employment benefit liabilities risks Through its defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit liabilities, the Group is exposed to a number of investment and actuarial risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The retirement benefit plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets under perform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and Irish plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while exposing the Group to greater volatility and valuation risk in the short term.
The government bonds represent investments in UK Government securities only.
Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK and Irish plans, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Atkins Pension Plan has had interest and inflation rate hedging in place for some time, but due to the relative immaturity of the longevity hedging market, to date the Group has held off implementing a longevity hedging programme.
As a consequence, the Plan remains fully exposed to any future improvements in mortality beyond those already assumed by the Actuary.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Whilst some of the Plans assets are real in nature and so loosely correlated with inflation e. g. equities, index-linked gilts, some of the Plans assets are not expected to move in line with inflation e. g. fixed-interest gilts.
Therefore an increase in inflation is likely to also increase the deficit.
The Group does not use derivatives or hedging, other than interest and inflation rate hedging, to manage its risk.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets in 2015 consists of equities and bonds, although the Group also invests in property, cash and investment hedge funds.
The Group believes that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
The majority of equities are in a globally diversified portfolio of international blue chip entities.
A breakdown of the major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets for the two UK schemes is detailed above.
Expected maturity analysis of other post-employment benefit liabilities are as follows: Less than Between Between Over At 31 March 2015 a year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total KESOP US$m 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.7 Post-retirement medical benefit schemes US$m 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 191 Notes to the Financial Statements continued An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations for the two main defined benefit schemes is given in the table below: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2015 2014 2015 2014 % % % % Proportion relating to active members 0.0 0.0 37.0 37.0 Proportion relating to deferred members 64.0 61.0 15.0 16.0 Proportion relating to pensioners 36.0 39.0 48.0 47.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20 years 2014: 20 years for the Atkins Pension Plan, 16 years 2014: 16 years for the Railways Pension Scheme, between 25 and 30 years 2014: between 25 and 30 years for the McCarthy Pension Plan and between 25 and 35 years for the Terramar AS Pension Plan.
Expected future benefit payments from the Atkins Pension Plan are mostly in respect of pension payments that are either linked to price inflation or receive fixed pension increases.
These projected benefit payments are expected to be made from the Plan over the next 80 or so years.
The payments are expected to rise over the next 30 years, when they will peak, before beginning to decline.
The Group expects pension benefits to be paid by the schemes during the financial year to 31 March 2016 to be approximately 45.6m.
30 Other non-current liabilities Group 2015 2014 Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred contingent bid costs contingent bid costs consideration recovered Total consideration recovered Total m m m m m m Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered and deferred contingent consideration, maturing: Later than one year and no later than two years 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.1 0.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.2 0.2 Later than five years 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.8 1.4 3.2 1.5 1.5 31 Ordinary shares Group and Company 2015 2014 No.
shares m Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each At 1 April and at 31 March 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5 At the 2014 annual general meeting AGM, shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10,011,000 of its own ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 12 June 2014 for a period ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 30 September 2015, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met.
The notice of meeting for the AGM to be held at 1100 hours on Wednesday 29 July 2015 proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority.
Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins EBTs.
As at the date of this report there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5 pence each nominal value 21,705 held as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: nil.
The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% 2014: 4.2% of the total of the called up share capital as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled and represent a deduction from shareholders equity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 192 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32 Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plans WS Atkins plc Long-term Growth Unit plan LGU August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives where units are granted at a base price which is based on the six month average share price calculated at the date of grant.
The vesting of units occurs in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to the Remuneration Committees assessment of the Groups progress against its strategy.
On exercise, the value of each Unit is equal to the increase, if any, in the average share price of one notional Company share between the grant date and the exercise date.
Any such gain will normally be calculated using the six month average share price.
Any gain on exercise will usually be settled in equity except in the US, where awards are granted as market value options and are scaled back on exercise to be equivalent in value to the gain that would have been received under a non-US award.
No more than 50% of a participants total number of units subject to a single grant may be exercised in any 12 month rolling period.
As a general rule, units granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they receive a pro rata entitlement.
WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives used to grant awards that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Subject to the Companys growth in diluted EPS over the performance period.
Full vesting is triggered if the EPS growth in the three-year performance period is 12% per annum or higher.
If the increase is less than 5% per annum, there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 5% per annum, vesting will be at 25%, and a sliding scale operates between 5% and 12% per annum EPS growth.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2006 to July 2011 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Different performance targets were used for different categories of management.
Grants made to executive directors and senior employees had 50% of the grant subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting of this portion of the grant took place if the Company was ranked in the upper quartile and 30% vesting was achieved with a median ranking, with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.
No vesting occurred for a ranking below median.
The remaining 50% of grants made to executive directors and senior employees was subject to the Companys real growth in underlying EPS over the performance period.
Full vesting was triggered if the increase in real EPS growth above UK RPI in the three-year performance period was 10% per annum or higher.
If the increase above UK RPI was less than 4% per annum, there was no vesting.
If the increase was 4% per annum above RPI, vesting was at 30%, and a sliding scale operated between 4% and 10% per annum.
All awards have now vested.
Awards granted to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who left employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received a pro rata entitlement.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant without interest.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 193 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Deferred Share Plans Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There was no performance condition but awards were restricted for at least three years from the date of grant.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who left employment prior to vesting were forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received their award in full.
Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period from the date of grant, fixed by the Remuneration Committee at grant.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they will receive their award in full.
Awards granted to executive directors in relation to the Executive Bonus Scheme are restricted for three years from the date of grant.
The Groups share-based payments charge for the year of 11.3m 2014: 10.2m has been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Groups results and financial position is as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m Total expense recognised for equity settled share-based payment transactions 8.6 6.7 Total expense recognised for cash settled share-based payment transactions 2.7 3.5 11.3 10.2 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share-based payment transactions 4.9 4.7 As at 31 March 2015 the following awards were outstanding: LTIPs LGU DBP DSP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise exercise exercise transfer transfer transfer No.
The units outstanding as at 1 April 2013 have been amended accordingly.
2 A correction of an administrative error has been made in relation to awards granted under the LGU on 24 June 2013.
The award levels were originally determined with reference to a five month average share price instead of the approved six month average share price.
The number of units shown as granted in the year ended 31 March 2014 has been restated in the above table to reflect the amended award levels based on the six-month average share price.
The weighted average exercise price of LGU awards is calculated by reference to both non-US awards, where the increase in value is delivered in the form of a nil cost option, and US awards, where the awards take the form of market value options.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1,337.64 pence 2014: 1,100.14 pence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 194 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2015 is as follows: Weighted average Awards Awards Exercise remaining outstanding exercisable Award transfer Scheme Maximum contractual at 31 March at 31 March Scheme date price maturity term life 2015 2015 LGUs LGU August 2012 onwards 13 08 2012 0.0p 4 to 6 years 10 years 8.27 years 314,904 non-US to 17 11 2014 LGU August 2012 onwards US 13 08 2012 667.0p 4 to 6 years 10 years 8.35 years 136,516 to 17 11 2014 to 1301.0p LTIPs LTIP August 2012 onwards 13 08 2012 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 8.25 years 577,926 to 17 11 2014 LTIP September 2006 11 09 2006 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 2.09 years 26,958 26,958 to July 2012 EPS to 03 08 2007 DSPs DBP 24 06 2005 0.0p 3 years 10 years 1.40 years 26,146 26,146 to 30 11 2007 DSP 29 06 2007 to 17 11 2014 0.0p 1 to 3 years 1 to 10 years 7.88 years 3,354,558 453,846 On 26 June 2014 the Company issued awards over 665,618 shares to employees under the DSP.
On 17 November 2014 the Company issued awards over 282,394 shares to employees under the DSP, 155,376 shares to employees under the LTIP and 121,233 units to employees under the LGU.
At 31 March 2015 the Companys EBTs held a beneficial interest in 2,944,156 shares 2014: 2,524,663 shares at a nominal value of 0.0m 2014: 0.0m and market value of 37.6m 2014: 35.1m.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 1211.09 pence 2014: 936.34 pence.
The total fair value of awards granted during the year was 14.8m 2014: 14.8m.
Fair value of awards with market performance conditions WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan August 2012 onwards The Black Scholes Model was used for the purposes of valuing LGU awards granted in the current year.
The model calculated the fair value of awards granted, upon which the share-based payments charge is based.
The expected volatility has been based on an evaluation of the historical volatility of the Companys share price, particularly over the historical period commensurate with the expected term of the award.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: LGU 2015 Exercise price six month average at grant date 1329.02p 1329.02p 1329.02p Risk-free interest rate 1.176% 1.403% 1.554% Volatility of share price 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Share price at grant 1303.00p 1303.00p 1303.00p Base value six month average share price at grant date 1329.02p 1329.02p 1329.02p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years LGU 2014 Exercise price six month average at grant date 866.51p 866.51p 866.51p Risk-free interest rate 1.143% 1.626% 1.718% Volatility of share price 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Share price at grant 973.00p 973.00p 973.00p Base value six month average share price at grant date 866.51p 866.51p 866.51p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 195 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Cash generated from continuing operations Group Group Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note m m m m Profit for the year 85.7 96.3 34.7 43.7 Adjustments for: Income tax 7 21.0 17.9 Finance income 6 4.8 4.2 3.3 2.6 Finance costs 6 19.3 17.8 4.6 5.2 Income from other investments 2.2 1.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 3 0.1 2.4 Other non-cash costs income 4.8 3.5 Depreciation charges 16 16.3 14.7 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 17 2.9 Impairment of goodwill 14 2.8 Net profit on disposal of businesses 8 0.4 10.5 Profit on disposal of loan notes 0.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 13.0 7.5 Share-based payment charge 32 8.6 6.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Dividends received 40.9 45.4 Movement in provisions 28 0.7 1.8 Movement in inventories 0.2 Movement in trade and other receivables 23 38.8 20.1 0.1 5.2 Movement in payables 27 42.6 29.9 2.7 9.6 Movement in non-current payables 1.3 0.7 Pension deficit funding 29 32.0 32.0 Cash generated from continuing operations 133.9 95.5 0.6 4.7 34 Analysis of net funds Other At 1 April Cash non-cash Exchange 31 March 2014 flow changes movement 2015 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 237.3 7.3 5.4 235.4 Loan notes receivable 20.3 1.5 21.8 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 31.5 1.3 0.6 33.4 Borrowings due no later than one year 55.2 5.8 61.0 Borrowings due later than one year 45.5 4.7 50.2 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Net funds 188.3 4.5 0.6 5.1 179.3 Included within loan notes receivable is 2.0m 2014: 0.4m relating to amounts receivable within less than 12 months from joint venture entities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 196 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35 Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of performance and contractual related bonds, as well as letters of credit issued on its behalf.
The amount outstanding at 31 March 2015 includes 0.9m letters of credit issued as a result of the acquisition of PBSJ 2014: 3.3m.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group acquired PBSJ The Company.
Prior to the acquisition, the Audit Committee of the Board of directors of PBSJ undertook an internal investigation to determine whether any laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, had been violated in connection with certain projects undertaken by PBS&J International, Inc. one of PBSJs subsidiary undertakings.
The investigation suggested that FCPA violations may have occurred but did not extend beyond the international operation and that none of PBSJs executive management were involved in criminal conduct.
PBSJ voluntarily disclosed this matter to the Department of Justice DOJ and to the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and cooperated fully with their review.
The DOJ has closed its inquiry into this matter without taking further action, citing the Companys thorough investigation, prompt disclosure and cooperation.
The Company has also resolved the SECs investigation and entered into a deferred prosecution agreement pursuant to which the Company has agreed, among other things, to pay a settlement amount of approximately US$3.4 million, comprising project profit, interest and civil penalties.
Group companies are from time to time involved in claims and litigation.
The Group carries Professional Indemnity insurance cover for such claims.
36 Operating lease arrangements The Group leases various offices under operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under operating lease arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2015 2014 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m No later than one year 46.7 7.3 39.8 6.8 Later than one year and no later than five years 97.3 8.2 90.5 7.7 Later than five years 24.5 25.5 168.5 15.5 155.8 14.5 The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2015 2014: none.
At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable as follows: 2015 2014 Property Property Group m m No later than one year 3.0 1.8 Later than one year and no later than five years 4.6 3.9 Later than five years 0.1 0.1 7.7 5.8 The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2015 2014: none.
37 Capital and other financial commitments Group 2015 2014 m m Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred property, plant and equipment 2.7 6.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 197 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Related party transactions Details of the directors shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report page 90, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 29.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are shown in note 39 and its principal joint ventures in note 40.
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external customers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provision has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and nil charged to income and expense 2014: nil.
a Group sales and purchases of goods and services Group 2015 2014 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 30.7 61.9 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures b Group year end balances arising from sales purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures and loans provided to joint ventures Group 2015 2014 Note m m Receivables from joint ventures 23 6.4 7.7 Receivables from joint ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of nil 2014: nil.
Payables to joint ventures c Group year end balances arising from loans provided to other related parties Group 2015 2014 Note m m Receivables from related parties 22 19.8 19.9 d Company sales purchases of goods and services to from subsidiaries The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year 2014: nil.
The Company did not purchase any goods or services from its subsidiaries during the year 2014: nil.
e Company year end balances with subsidiaries Company 2015 2014 Note m m Receivables from subsidiaries 23 169.4 164.2 Payables to subsidiaries 27 65.9 76.2 Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of 0.5m 2014: 0.5m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 198 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued f Key management compensation Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the senior leadership team SLT.
Group 1 Restated 2015 2014 m m Short term employee benefits 7.3 7.6 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Share-based payments 2.3 2.6 9.7 10.4 1.
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits restated for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 as the executive directors cash bonus payments were erroneously excluded.
The deferred share award element of any bonus paid to key management is not included in the salaries and other short term employment benefits number as it is included in the share-based payment charge in subsequent years.
39 Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2015: Class and percentage Country of registration of shares Name incorporation held Nature of business 1 Atkins Australasia Pty Ltd Australia 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Beta Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins China Limited Hong Kong 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Consultants Shenzhen Co Ltd China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Danmark A S Denmark 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Gamma Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins Investments UK Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins North America, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Nuclear Solutions US USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Sverige AB Sweden 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Faithful Gould, Inc USA 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Faithful Gould Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost estimators Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Terramar AS Norway 100% ordinary Project management 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Engineering Consultants Saudi Arabia 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins India Private Limited India 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance 1 WS Atkins International Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held.
The Group holds the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
Advantage has been taken of section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, and only principal subsidiary undertakings have been shown above.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be filed at Companies House with the Companys Annual Return.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 199 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40 Joint arrangements Joint ventures The following represents the principal joint ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Principal Proportion of place of ownership Name Nature of business business interest 1 AMA Nuclear Limited A joint venture involved in the Silos Direct-encapsulation Plant project UK 33.3% SDP, which is a key part of a major clean-up programme at the Sellafield nuclear site in Cumbria, UK.
Connect Plus Services Joint venture undertaking operation and maintenance work on the M25, UK 32.5% 1 unincorporated Londons orbital motorway.
1 Engage S. N. C. A French general partnership providing architect engineering services for France 25.0% the ITER programme, a nuclear fusion reactor in France.
Nuclear Atkins Assystem A French general partnership providing consultancy and France 50.0% 1 Alliance S. N. C. engineering services to the international nuclear new-build market, operating internationally from offices in France.
1 Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
Joint operations The Group also carries out contracts in joint arrangement with other contractors as our clients seek a single point of responsibility for major projects.
The following are the principal joint operations in which the Group participated during the year: Principal place of Proportion Name Nature of business business of interest Staffordshire Alliance An alliance to deliver a programme of three separate projects: Line Speed UK 33.3% Improvements North, Stafford Area Re-signalling and Norton Bridge Grade separation under the Stafford Area Improvements Programme, UK.
Atkins TYPSA A joint operation to provide design services to the FAST consortium for KSA 50.0% lines 4, 5 and 6 of the Riyadh metro, a rapid transit system under construction in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
41 Events occurring after the reporting period In Portugal, the continuing difficult economic conditions will curtail any meaningful growth in the medium term and we have taken the decision to exit the Portuguese market, where we currently employ 48 staff.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
