Financial statements Shareholder information Contacts Financial calendar 2016 Chief Executive Officer 2015 full year results 2 December 2015 Alex Chesterman Ex-dividend date for final dividend 17 December 2015 Chief Financial Officer Record date for final dividend 18 December 2015 Stephen Morana Annual General Meeting 25 February 2016 Company Secretary Payment date for final dividend 3 March 2016 Ned Staple Half year results May 2016 Head of Communications Payment date for interim dividend July 2016 Lawrence Hall Website Shareholder enquiries www.
co. uk The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your Registered office shareholding or dividends.
Please notify them of your change of address or other personal Zoopla Property Group Plc information.
Their address details are: Harlequin Building Equiniti 65 Southwark Street Aspect House London SE1 0HR Spencer Road Lancing Corporate advisers West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditor Deloitte LLP Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Remuneration adviser Equiniti helpline: 0871 384 2030 calls cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras  LLP Overseas: 44 121 415 7047 Brokers Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities including electronic Jefferies Hoare Govett communications, account enquiries, amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Solicitor Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Registrar Equiniti Limited Note on forward-looking statements This report includes statements related to our future business, financial As such, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, performance and future events or developments that may constitute uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to: believes, estimates, anticipates, plans, projects, expects, intends, f a change in the competition within the industry in which we operate: may, will or should or, in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include f a change, due to various factors which may include the matters that are not historical facts.
They appear throughout this report macroeconomic conditions in which we operate, in the level and include statements relating to our beliefs, intentions or current oftransactions in the UK residential property market: expectations concerning a number of matters including our results of f a change in technological developments: liquidity, the effect of our financial performance on our share price, financial condition, prospects, growth and expansion, strategies and the industry in f the loss of any of our important commercial relationships: and which we operate.
All forward-looking statements are based upon f any increase in litigation or disputes.
information available to us on the date of this Annual Report.
While we believe that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we caution We caution that the foregoing list of factors may not contain all of the that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known or unknown factors material factors that are important to you and you should not place or toanticipate all factors that could affect our actual results.
undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only asof the date of this Annual Report.
We undertake no obligation, and arenot under any obligation, to update or keep current the information contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, futureevents or otherwise.
100 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Design Port olio is committed to planting trees or every corporate communications project, in association with Trees or Cities.
101 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Zoopla Property Group Plc Zoopla Property Group Plcs commitment to environmental issues is reflected Harlequin Building in this Annual Report which has been printed on Core silk which is an FSC 65 Southwark Street certified paper.
This document was printed by Park Communications using London SE1 0HR their environmental print technology, whichminimises the impact of printing on the environment.
Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of all www.
co. uk dry waste associated with this production is diverted from landfill.
