Significant accounting policies costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies Multiple element arrangements have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate otherwise stated.
elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, revenue revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to as described above.
the group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be Operating and reportable segments measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
The groups operating segments are reported based on financial information provided to the BT Group plc Operating Committee, as Services detailed on page2, which is the key management committee and Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services represents the chief operating decision maker.
is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the The groups organisational structure reflects the different customer rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised groups to which it provides communications products and services on a straight-line basis over the period to which it relates.
Revenue via its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups Business, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges facing lines of business are supported by an internal service unit: BT for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The across the groups network.
remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results Equipment sales of the group.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the centralised functions including procurement, supply chain and significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the property management.
customer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and accepted by the customer.
regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full Long-term contractual arrangements impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results and offset Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements including fixed in the group results through the utilisation of the provision previously price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to definition of specific items as detailed on page66.
the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customercompletion such as the achievement of contract milestones and facing lines of business to reflect the services it provides to them.
In the case of time and materials contracts, Depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to the revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
networks and systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business is allocated to the lines of business Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs BTTSO for specific projects undertaken on behalf of the customerincurred in the initial contract set up, transition or transformation facing lines of business is allocated based on the value of the directly phase, which is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
Where projects are not directly These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight attributable to a particular line of business, capital expenditure is line basis over the remaining contract term, unless the pattern of allocated between them based on the proportion of estimated future service delivery indicates a different profile is appropriate.
BT TSO and the groups centralised functions costs are directly attributable to specific contracts, relate to future are not reportable segments as they did not meet the quantitative activity, will generate future economic benefits and are assessed for thresholds as set out in IFRS8 Operating Segments for any of the recoverability on a regular basis.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 68 5 19 2015 1:07:22 AM Notes to the consolidated financial statements 69 3.
Significant accounting policies continued The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on Land and buildings adjusted EBITDA, defined as EBITDA before specific items, as Freehold buildings 40 years included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the BT Group Leasehold land and buildings Unexpir ed portion plc Operating Committee.
EBITDA is defined as the operating profit of lease or 40 years, or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and whichever is the shorter taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of the lines of business because it Network infrastructure approximates to the underlying operating cash flow by eliminating Transmission equipment depreciation and amortisation.
It also provides a meaningful Duct 40 years analysis of trading performance by excluding specific items, which Cable 3 to 25 years are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Fibre 5 to 20 years Specific items are detailed in note8 and are not allocated to the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years reportable segments as this reflects how they are reported to the BT Other network equipment 2 to 20 years Group plc Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income are not Other assets allocated to the reportable segments, as the central treasury function Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years manages this activity, together with the overall net debt position of Computers and office equipment 3 to 6 years the group.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of retirement benefits the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and useful The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised isthe present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair prospectively.
The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualified actuary Intangible assets using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls at the balance sheet date.
the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the group and the cost of the asset can The income statement expense is allocated between an operating be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge are amortised over their useful economic life.
The method of reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from amortisation reflects the pattern in which the assets are expected the pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period, to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the the costs of administering the plans and any past service costs straight line method is used.
credits such as those arising from curtailments or settlements.
The net finance income or expense reflects the interest on the retirement Goodwill benefit obligations recognised in the group balance sheet, based Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the on the discount rate at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets including losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are intangible assets of the acquired business.
presented in the group statement of comprehensive income.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a The group also operates defined contribution pension plans and the business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is expected income statement expense represents the contributions payable for to benefit from the business combination.
Each CGU to which theyear.
goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of Computer software accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased charges.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise Computer software licences purchased from third parties are initially from the continued use of the asset.
The difference between the sale recorded at cost.
proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recognised in operating costs in the income statement.
Costs directly associated with the production of internally developed software, including direct and indirect labour costs of development, Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are capitalised only where it is probable that the software will are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable generate future economic benefits, the cost of the asset can be overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, equipment on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance for use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life sheet.
Costs which do not meet these criteria and research costs are taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not expensed as incurred.
The groups development costs which give rise to internally developed software include upgrading the network architecture or functionality and developing service platforms aimed at offering new services to the groups customers.
Telecommunications licences Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications activities to be operated for defined periods, are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
Significant accounting policies continued net basis.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, Acquired intangible assets customer relationships and brands on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable Intangible assets such as customer relationships or brands acquired that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of difference can be utilised.
these relationships or brands and include managements estimates of Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to revenue and profits to be generated by them.
apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Estimated useful economic lives enacted by the balance sheet date.
The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal categories of intangible assets are as follows: Basis of consolidation Computer software 2 to 10 years The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years of BTplc the company and its subsidiaries, and they incorporate its Customer relationships and brands 5 to 15 years share of the results of associates and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
programme rights A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its which the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those commitments in note 28.
Payments made to receive commissioned or returns through its power over the investee.
Non-controlling interests acquired programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries, which consist of the programmes are classified as prepayments.
amounts of those interests at the date of the original business Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised combination and non-controlling share of changes in equity since from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight the date of the combination, are not material to the groups financial line basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence statements.
The amortisation charge is recorded within The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are operating costs in the income statement.
consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned at production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group transactions portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the income statement including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are over the period of the related broadcast.
eliminated in full on consolidation.
Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out below.
disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of Related cash outflows are classified as operating cash flows in the the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any cash flow statement.
retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonprovisions controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is recognised as a Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or specific item.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Business combinations the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by On acquisition of a subsidiary, purchase consideration is measured discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that at fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments the risks specific to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at costs are expensed as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
provisions are measured at the lower of the cost to fulfil or to exit the Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured contract.
at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and Current and deferred income tax the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the identifiable or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically impairment of non-financial assets evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups higher of the net present value of the expected future cash flows assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets and value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset less cost to sell.
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 70 5 19 2015 1:07:22 AM Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified losses are recognised in the income statement, as a specific item.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the If a cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of firstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The intangible and other assets.
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently Government grants measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have been the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the complied with and the grants will be received.
income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and Share-based payments reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc operates a number of reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which related category of costs in the income statement.
Government the group receives services from employees in consideration for grants received relating to future expenditure are recognised as equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
payments received in advance within Other payables.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of non market-based Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent vesting conditions but including any market-based performance liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS37 criteria and the impact of non-vesting conditions for example Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
the requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised as an expense on a Foreign currencies straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange to the share-based payment arrangement.
rates are recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations are approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated immediately recognised in the income statement.
As the requirement at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising to save under an employee saveshare arrangement is a non-vesting on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of condition, employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative statement reversing all previously recognised charges in the year in translation difference associated with the undertaking in the which they lapse or are forfeited.
translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement.
Termination benefits Termination benefits leaver costs are payable when employment is research and development terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the group from the Financial instruments asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured Financial liabilities at amortised cost and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is Trade and other payables capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, development costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective directly attributable overheads.
leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Significant accounting policies continued Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition Loans and other borrowings is not supported by observable market data and differs from the Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is not of amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses are borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using deferred and amortised to the income statement based on the the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge remaining contractual term and as observable market data becomes relationship, are re-valued to reflect the fair value movements on available.
the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The hedge accounting resulting amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any the hedge, is recognised in the income statement.
resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify Available-for-sale investments for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at Liquid and other investments are classified as available-for-sale inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the dates to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for hedge remains in operation.
hedge accounting is discontinued when changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer impairment losses, which are recognised in the income statement qualifies for hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as either cash time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is flow hedges or fair value hedges.
taken to the income statement, in the line that most appropriately Cash flow hedges reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
On disposal or When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge impairment of the investments, any gains and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the income statement when the groups right to receive payment in the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of recognised assets is established.
Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
equity and recognised in the same line of the income statement and Loans and receivables in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the Trade and other receivables income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash flow hedge Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less provisions arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions are made specifically where statement line which most appropriately reflects the nature of the there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account item or transaction.
ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Fair value hedges Cash and cash equivalents When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the income statement at each reporting date, together with any changes consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the defined above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
are included within loans and other borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for trading and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The groups policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
however, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Any direct transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement in the line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or current liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they are classified within either non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
