66 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Preparation of the financial statements IFRS 9 was published in July 2014 and will be effective for periods These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in beginning on or after 1 January 2018 subject to endorsement by accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS the EU.
It is applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities, Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and and covers the classification, measurement, impairment and fideInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with a interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated new hedge accounting model.
financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical effective we expect to have a material impact on the group.
cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial Presentation of specific items statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately British Telecommunications plc, the parent company.
identify trading results before specific items.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to reorganisation an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specific From 1 April 2014 BT Conferencing has moved from BT Business items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This into BT Global Services.
This simplifies the way we provide integrated presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance collaboration solutions to our global customers.
BT Security has is measured by management and reported to the Board and the moved from our central group functions within Other into BT Global Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis Services.
Security is of increasing importance to our customers, and of the trading results of the group.
In determining whether an event we believe that this move helps us better compete in the market and or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as take full advantage of global opportunities.
well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of In order to present historical information on a consistent basis, we occurrence.
have revised comparatives for the years ended 31 March 2014 and Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be 31 March 2013 in BT Global Services, BT Business and Other.
There appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is is no impact on the total group results.
The net assets including consistent with the way that financial performance is measured goodwill have been reallocated to the appropriate cash generating by management and reported to the Board and the Operating units to reflect this reorganisation see note 11.
The overall impact on Committee of BT Group plc.
the lines of business is disclosed in note 4.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures new and amended accounting standards adopted with no significant used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting impact on the group the above definition and which have been presented as specific items The following new and amended accounting standards adopted in the current and or prior years include disposals of businesses and during the year did not have any significant impact on the group.
investments, regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Presentation Offsetting Financial charges, property rationalisation programmes, net interest on Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 pensions and the settlement of multiple tax years.
In the event that IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge other items meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from Accounting year to year, they are also treated as specific items.
IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36.
Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note8.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements are not yet effective The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The following standards have been issued and are effective for requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also accounting periods ending on or after 1 January 2015 and are requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of expected to have an impact on the group financial statements.
applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
issued and is expected to be effective for periods beginning on or Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and after 1January 2017, subject to consultation on potential deferral by associated disclosures with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee.
one year and endorsement by the EU.
The areas involving a higher degree ofjudgement or complexity are described below.
IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard requires entities to apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a relative standalone selling basis, based on a five-step model.
The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of this standard.
indb 66 5 19 2015 1:07:22 AM Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 provisions and contingent liabilities 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued As disclosed in note 17, the groups provisions principally relate long-term customer contracts to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identified may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may shortfall is recognised as a provision.
have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is estimates are appropriate.
considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged Key factors reviewed include: are regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, regulatory risk.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the market position and other factors such as general economic amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome conditions.
Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to the transition, development, transformation and deployment contingent liabilities see note 28 through assessing the likelihood phases for customer contracts.
that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the The status of commercial relations with customers and the possible range of financial outcomes.
implication for future revenue and cost projections.
Our estimates of future staff and third-party costs and the Current and deferred income tax degree to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability services contracts is disclosed in note 15. for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and pension obligations judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of benefits to approximately 306,500 people over a period of more prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected than 80 years.
The accounting cost of these benefits and the present in the financial statements and may result in the recognition of an value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement employees, price inflation and the discount rate used to calculate in determining the amounts to be recognised.
The group uses the net present value of the future pension payments.
We use managements expectations of future revenue growth, operating estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and costs, and profit margins to determine the extent to which future liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions taxable profits will be generated against which to consume the reflect historical experience and our judgement regarding future deferred tax assets.
The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is disclosed The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2015, the key on the balance sheet on page 63.
The carrying value of the groups financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the sensitivity deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 9. of the IAS 19 pension liability at 31 March 2015, and of the income statement operating charge in 2015 16 to changes in these Goodwill assumptions are disclosed in note 18.
The recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and future revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating switching equipment operating for over ten years and underground cash flows for each CGU.
ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the products and services The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in provided to our customers and that is also used within the group.
performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to in note 12. the estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reflect providing for doubtful debts current thinking on the remaining lives in light of technological BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on change, network investment plans including the groups fibre credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid rollout programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level assets implemented from 1 April 2014 had no significant impact in of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2015. such factors as the current state of the economy and particular industry issues.
The carrying values of software and property, plant and equipment are disclosed in notes 11 and 12.
The useful lives applied to the The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 15. principal categories of assets are disclosed on pages 69 and 70.
