Parent company accounting policies 111 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISh TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BrITISH TElECOMMuNICATIONS plC pArENT COMpANy ACCOuNTING pOlICIES i Accounting basis Services Turnover arising from separable installation and connection As used in these financial statements and associated notes, services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover the term company refers to British Telecommunications plc from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits BT plc.
These separate financial statements of the company are is recognised evenly over the period to which it relates.
Turnover presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK companys network.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for The principal accounting policies are set out below and have been access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
are recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other and under the historical cost convention as modified by the telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
Exemptions Equipment sales As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Turnover from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended and accepted by the customer.
31 March 2015 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the long-term contractual arrangements exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements, including own cash flow statement.
fixed price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure 31 March 2015 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, according to the nature of the contract such as the proportion the company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other or other measures of completion such as the achievement of members of the BT Group.
contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended and materials contracts, turnover is recognised as the service is 31 March 2015 contain financial instruments disclosures which rendered.
are prepared in accordance with IFRS 7 and which therefore Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
phase, which is deferred and recorded within debtors due after more than one year.
These costs are then recognised in Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the not yet effective remaining contract term, unless the pattern of service delivery Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of Financial indicates a different profile is appropriate.
These costs are Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, BT directly attributable to specific contracts, relate to future activity, plc is required to change its accounting framework for its entity will generate future economic benefits and are assessed for financial statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for its financial recoverability on a regular basis.
The purpose of FRS 100 is to align reporting in the UK with IFRS.
The company will adopt The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
total expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless changes in presentation of the financial statements the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with In 2013 14 and 2012 13 tangible fixed assets were presented reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In net of 126m and 15m of government grants respectively.
such circumstances, turnover is recognised equal to the costs These amounts are now disclosed within other creditors which incurred to date, to the extent that such turnover is expected to is consistent with the current year treatment and as required by be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
There was no impact to the results or Recognised turnover and profits are subject to revisions during financial position of the company resulting from this change in the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract presentation.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become ii Turnover likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received to completion exceed the estimated turnover for a contract, the or receivable for communication services and equipment sales, full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
net of discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction Multiple element arrangements will flow to the company and the amount of turnover and Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more associated costs can be measured reliably.
Where the company separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises turnover net of basis, turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an directly attributable costs.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
indb 111 5 19 2015 1:07:26 AM 112 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 iii research and development the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account recorded in operating costs in the profit and loss account.
in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised are direct and indirect labour costs, materials, and directly in the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred attributable overheads.
Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed unless it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the assets on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available company from the asset being developed, the cost of the for use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset not depreciated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Research and development costs include direct and indirect Land and buildings labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or 40 years, iv leases whichever is the The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a shorter lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is Network infrastructure dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the Transmission equipment: arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Duct 40 years Leases of tangible fixed assets where the company holds Cable 3 to 25 years substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified Fibre 5 to 20 years as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present Other network equipment 2 to 20 years value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the Other leased asset.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as Computers and office equipment 3 to 6 years liabilities.
Leases are subsequently measured at amortised cost Software 2 to 10 years using the effective interest method.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and held by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over recognised prospectively.
viii impairment of fixed assets, intangible assets and goodwill v Foreign currencies Fixed assets, intangible assets and goodwill are tested for Foreign currency transactions are translated into the reporting impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the each reporting date indicate that the carrying amount might not transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from be recoverable.
Goodwill is also reviewed for impairment at the the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary end of the first financial year after its initial recognition.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss account in When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is the line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the transaction.
expected future cash flows value in use of the continued use of the asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses are vi Goodwill and intangible assets recognised in the profit and loss account.
Goodwill arising from the purchase of businesses represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair ix Government grants value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of been complied with and the grants will be received.
acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is normally presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
Government grants received relating to the purchase or build of property, plant and equipment are recognised as deferred If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised income within other creditors and are credited to the profit and goodwill is included in the profit and loss account in the period of loss account over the expected useful life of the related asset on a disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
basis that is consistent with our depreciation policy.
Telecommunications licence fees paid to governments, which Grants for the reimbursement of operating expenditure are permit telecommunications activities to be operated for defined deducted from the related category of costs in the profit and loss periods, are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time account.
the network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
x Investments in subsidiary undertakings vii Tangible fixed assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost, net of any reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying accumulated depreciation, and any impairment charges.
value may not be recoverable.
On disposal of tangible fixed assets, the difference between 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 112 5 19 2015 1:07:26 AM Parent company accounting policies 113 113 Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value xi Stocks at the date of grant excluding the effect of non market-based Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental vesting conditions but including any market-based performance and consumable items.
criteria and the impact of non-vesting conditions for example Equipment and consumable items are stated at the lower of the requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for at the grant date is recognised as an expense on a straight line obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
basis over the vesting period, based on the companys estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and adjusted xii programme rights for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from is measured using either the Binomial options pricing model or the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to the Rights for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as share-based payment arrangement.
Payments made to receive commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
right to broadcast the programmes are classified as prepayments.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of equity Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not amortised from the point at which they are available for use, on a vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that straight line basis over the programming period, or the remaining is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for licence term, as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded as a cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting within operating costs in the profit and loss account.
and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the profit and loss account.
As the requirement to save under Programmes produced internally are recognised within current an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting condition, assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the related broadcast.
Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the profit Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with and loss account reversing the previously recognised charges in the companys policy for impairment of fixed assets, intangible the year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
assets and goodwill set out on page 112. xvi Current and deferred income tax xiii redundancy costs Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an company periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject benefits.
The company recognises redundancy or leaver costs to interpretation, and the company establishes provisions where when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to leaving the company.
xiv Post retirement benefits Deferred tax is recognised, in respect of timing differences The companys obligation in respect of defined benefit pension between the carrying amount of the companys assets and plans is the present value of the defined benefit pension liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax asset is recognised obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
The calculation only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be of the obligation is performed by a qualified actuary using the regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, projected unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions at the within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against balance sheet date.
which the deductible timing difference can be utilised.
The profit and loss account charge is allocated between an Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The to apply in periods in which the asset is realised or liability operating charge reflects the increase in the defined benefit settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or obligation resulting from pension benefit earned by active substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax employees in the current period.
The net finance income reflects balances are not discounted.
the expected return on the assets of the plan offset by the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, xvii Dividends based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
occur and are presented in the reconciliation of movement in Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final equity shareholders funds.
dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
The company also operates defined contribution pension xviii provisions schemes and the profit and loss account charge represents the Provisions are recognised when the company has a present contributions payable for the year.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the xv Share-based payments obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows equity settled share-based arrangements, as detailed in note 19 at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the to the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial company receives services from employees as consideration for liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at fair value and equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to fulfil or the cost to exit the contract.
indb 113 5 19 2015 1:07:26 AM 114 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 xix Financial instruments Loans and other borrowings Financial assets Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings A financial asset is classified in this category if it is either acquired are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets are re-valued to reflect the fair value movements on the hedged at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised and risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in value amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any direct transaction hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to Loans and receivables reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not market other than those for which the company may not recover qualify for hedge accounting are classified as held for trading and substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
credit deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus immediately in the profit and loss account in net finance expense.
transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value or current liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 recognised in the profit and loss account.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they are classified within either Fixed asset investments fixed assets or creditors falling due after more than one year.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent diminution in value.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends upon the nature of the hedge.
Available-for-sale financial assets To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be Non-derivative financial assets classified as available-for-sale are prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly either specifically designated in this category or not classified in effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and the hedge remains in operation.
hedge accounting is discontinued then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no with unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the company chooses rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment to end the hedge relationship.
The group designates certain losses, which are recognised in the profit and loss account derivatives as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in Cash flow hedges equity is taken to the profit and loss account in the line that most When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Debtors derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity in Financial assets within debtors are initially recognised at fair the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of recognised assets value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest from equity and recognised in the same line in the profit and loss method less provisions made for doubtful debts.
Provisions are account in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, affects the profit and loss account.
Any ineffectiveness arising on taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and a cash flow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised general economic conditions.
immediately in the profit and loss.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the profit and Cash loss account line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Impairment of financial assets Fair value hedges The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impairment the profit and loss account at each reporting date, together with loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
hedge of net investment in a foreign operation Financial liabilities Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency Creditors instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign Financial liabilities within creditors are initially recognised at operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and the extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a method.
foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
