Subsidiary undertakings 127 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS a b The table below gives brief details of the groups principal operating subsidiaries at 31 March 2015.
All subsidiaries are unlisted, unless otherwise stated.
No subsidiaries are excluded from the group consolidation.
The group did not have any significant associates or joint ventures at 31 March 2015.
Group interest Country c d Subsidiary undertakings Activity in allotted capital of operation d, e BT Americas Inc  services, systems integration and 100% common International products provider e BT Australasia Pty Limited  services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference e BT Business Direct Limited Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK b, e BT Communications do Brasil Limitada  services, technology consulting 100% common Brazil and products provider e BT Communications Ireland Limited Telecommunications services provider 100% ordinary Republic of Ireland e BT Conferencing Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US e BT Conferencing Video Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Globales fide  services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain e Telecommunicaciones, SA BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK e BT France SA  services, systems integration and 100% ordinary France products provider e, f BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG  services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany e BT Global Communications India Private Limited  services 74% ordinary India e BT Global Services Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary UK BT holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK e BT hong Kong Limited  services and products provider 100% ordinary hong Kong 100% preference e BT Italia SpA  services and products provider 98.6% ordinary Italy g BT IT Services Limited IT solutions provider 100% ordinary UK e BT Latam Argentina SA  services and products provider 100% common Argentina e BT Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary International BT Managed Services Limited  services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Nederland NV  services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands BT Payment Services Limited Payment services provider 100% ordinary UK e BT Services SA Technology consulting and engineering services 100% ordinary France e BT Singapore Pte Ltd  services and products provider 100% ordinary Singapore e BT Switzerland AG  services and products provider 100% ordinary Switzerland d, e Communications Global Network Services Limited  services and products provider 100% ordinary International e Communications Networking Services UK  services and products provider 100% ordinary UK dabs.
com plc Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK Plusnet plc Broadband service provider 100% ordinary UK e Radianz Americas Inc Global managed network service provider 100% common US 100% preference a The group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore includes only those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
b The principal operating subsidiaries listed above have a reporting date of 31 March, except for entities domiciled in Brazil, due to regulatory requirements.
c The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
d All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except BT Americas Inc and Communications Global Network Services Limited which are incorporated in the US and Bermuda, respectively.
e Held through intermediate holding company.
f BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG is making use of disclosure exemptions under the German Commercial Code paragraph 264. g On 12 May 2014, BT Engage IT Limited changed its name to BT IT Services Limited.
