110 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF BRITISh TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC report on the parent company financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Our opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable law and In our opinion, British Telecommunications plcs parent company International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & financial statements the financial statements : Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and have been properly prepared in accordance with United only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the Companies Act 2006. responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save What we have audited where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
British Telecommunications plcs financial statements comprise: What an audit of financial statements involves the parent company balance sheet as at 31 March 2015: We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
the parent company accounting policies for the year then An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and ended: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the notes to the financial statements which include other assurance that the financial statements are free from material explanatory information.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Accepted Accounting Practice.
and adequately disclosed: In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect by the directors: and of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, the overall presentation of the financial statements.
they have made assumptions and considered future events.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and statements.
the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial We test and examine information, using sampling and other statements.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Other matters on which we are required to report by exception audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Adequacy of accounting records and information and substantive procedures or a combination of both.
explanations received In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 to identify material if, in our opinion: inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to we have not received all the information and explanations we identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect require for our audit: or based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we received from branches not visited by us: or consider the implications for our report.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March Directors remuneration 2015.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibilities and those of the directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors London responsibilities set out on page 58, the directors are responsible 13 May 2015 for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
