132 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Articles continued j Retirement of directors No person will be prevented from being or becoming a director simply because that person has reached the age of 70. k Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and BTs Articles allow, the Board may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
Further note on certain activities During 2014 15, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, other CPs, news organisations, multinational corporations and other customers that require global communications connectivity, are insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
Under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to disclose whether BT or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities.
Disclosure is required even when the activities were conducted outside the US by non-US entities and even when they were conducted in compliance with applicable law.
Our disclosures for 2014 15 are below.
BT Group plc has a contract in place with Telecommunications Infrastructure Company TIC, to make and receive voice calls from Iran to the UK.
These payments are subject to HM Treasury approval.
BT entered into a Framework Agreement with Rafsanjan Industrial Complex RIC for business consultancy services in May 2010 and provided an initial consultancy engagement under phase 1 of the agreement.
In February 2011, phase 2 was agreed with RIC however BT stopped work in December 2011 due to the geopolitical situation.
RIC made an advance payment to BT of 384,120 to carry out the phase 2 work.
We continue to explore whether the amount can be refunded.
Limitations affecting security holders There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
Material contracts The contracts summarised below not being entered into in the ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by, BT Group plc or another member of the group and are, or may be, material to the group or have been entered into by, BT Group plc or another member of the group and contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to, BT Group plc or such other member of the group.
Definitions The definitions from the shareholder circular apply to the following summary of the principal terms of the proposed acquisition of EE by BT Group plc and Financial effects of the acquisition considered in the shareholder circular.
For reference and understanding, we set out certain of these definitions below.
Acquisition: the proposed acquisition by BT Group plc of EE Acquisition Resolution: the Resolution to approve the Acquisition and to grant the Directors specific authority to allot the Consideration Shares Articles: the articles of association of BT Group plc in force from time to time Board: the Directors of BT Group plc from time to time BT Pension Scheme: BTs main defined benefit pension scheme Buy-Back Resolution: the resolution to approve the buy-back of Ordinary Shares from Deutsche Telekom and or Orange pursuant to the CP Contracts CP Contracts: the DT CP Contract and Orange CP Contract Completion: completion of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement Conditions: the conditions to Completion as set out in the Share Purchase Agreement Consideration Shares: the Ordinary Shares to be issued by BT Group plc to the Sellers pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement Directors or Board of Directors: the directors of BT Group plc whose names appear in the section in the shareholder circular entitled Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers Enlarged Group: BT Group plc and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, including EE and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, after the Acquisition and from time to time thereafter Financial Investor: a Qualified Institutional Buyer as defined in Rule 144A under the US Securities Act 1933 or a Qualified Investor as described in Section I 1 of Annex II to Directive 2004 39 EC, other than any activist fund, or any company licensed as a telecommunications operator or its affiliates General Meeting: the general meeting of BT Group plc held at 10.00 a. m. on 30 April 2015 to approve the Resolutions Long Stop Date: 5 August 2016 10 802639 Additional Information p128-142.
