Lock-up Provisions The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement will contain lock-up provisions pursuant to which Orange SA and Orange undertake for a period of 12 months from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their group members will, directly or indirectly, effect any Disposal as defined in Part B above.
The exceptions include: i any Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group: ii where Orange SA or Orange accepts any offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT Group plc, whether by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: iii any Disposal to any member of the Orange Group, provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: iv any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial Investor of up to all the shares of BT Group plc in which the Orange Group has an interest, provided that the transferee enters into a lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up provisions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: and v if the Orange Group owns 2% or less of the issued ordinary share capital of BT Group plc, any Disposal which is by way of a swap or other agreement to transfer the economic ownership of the shares.
Orange CP Contract Prior to any Disposal by Orange SA, Orange or any of their group members, in accordance with paragraph 3 iv above, BT Group plc has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in the Orange CP Contract.
Pursuant to the Orange CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a notice to BT Group plc specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to be sold or transferred.
BT Group plc has nine Business Days within which to make an offer for all of the shares detailed in the notice, or else its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, the selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months of the delivery of the notice to BT Group plc at a price equal to or greater than the price offered by BT Group plc.
If BT Group plc does not make an offer within the allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within three months of the delivery of the notice to BT Group plc at any price.
The Orange CP Contract will terminate 12 months from Completion.
The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT Group plc during a close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT Group plc.
If any such period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within which BT Group plc may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT Group plc will not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
When exercised in conjunction with BT Group plcs right of first offer in relation to Ordinary Shares held by Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT Group plc can acquire by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BT Group plcs share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no more than the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which BT Group plc makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
After expiry of the lock-up period described above, the Orange Group will be free to dispose of its shareholding in BT Group plc without further restriction.
A copy of the Orange CP Contract will be available for inspection at BTs registered office not less than 15 days before the date of the General Meeting.
FINANCIAL EFFECTS OF THE ACQUISITION CONSIDERED IN THE SHAREHOLDER CIRCULAR Introduction The BT Group plc Board believes that the proposed acquisition of EE the Acquisition will generate considerable value for shareholders, with significant cost savings as well as revenue synergies.
We have reproduced below the information relating to cost savings and revenue synergies that was set out in the shareholder circular.
Adjusting for the net present value of operating cost and capex synergies, the Acquisition values EE at a multiple of 6.0x 2014 EBITDA and a b 9.6x 2014 OpFCF.
The Acquisition is expected to be accretive to FCF per Ordinary Share from the first full year post-Completion.
As a result of c EEs high amortisation and depreciation charge, the Acquisition is expected to be accretive to Adjusted EPS one year later.
The cash return on investment is expected to comfortably exceed BT Group plcs cost of capital in the third year post-Completion on the basis of estimated synergies and integration costs.
Cost savings The Acquisition is expected to generate significant operating cost savings and additional capex savings.
Together these are expected to reach approximately 360m per annum in the fourth full year post-Completion.
Integration costs to achieve these savings are expected to be around 600m.
The savings are equivalent to a net present value of around 3.5bn before integration costs or around 3.0bn after integration costs.
Both BT and EE have a proven track record in delivering transformation with strong financial results.
BT brings its tried and tested approach to cost transformation, which uses forensic analysis to redesign processes to remove inefficiency, reduce the cost of failure and improve customer experience.
EE has demonstrated its ability to deliver post-transaction synergies ahead of initial expectations following its creation by the merger of the Orange Groups UK business and the Deutsche Telekom Groups UK business.
BT is confident it can use the combined experience to unlock significant synergies across the Enlarged Group.
indd 139 5 19 2015 11:28:43 AM 140 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Cost savings continued The operating cost and capex savings are expected to be achieved as follows: commercial savings with an annual run-rate of approximately 70m from consolidating sales and marketing operations, procurement efficiencies and simplifying digital platforms and the brand portfolio: IT savings with an annual run-rate of approximately 90m through consolidating IT systems and insourcing activities: network savings with an annual run-rate of approximately 80m through integrating some network elements and insourcing certain activities: and operational savings with an annual run-rate of approximately 120m from consolidating head office functions, rationalising property and realising scale economies in customer service operations.
Revenue synergies BT Group plc expects to generate revenue synergies by providing a full range of communications services to the combined customer base.
This includes selling BTs broadband, fixed telephony and pay-TV services to those EE customers who do not currently take a service from BT.
BT Group plc also expects to accelerate the sale of converged fixed-mobile services to its existing consumer and business customers and offer new services, using both companies product portfolios, skills and networks.
BT Group plc expects revenue synergies, over and above the revenue it had expected to be generated from its standalone mobile strategy, to have a net present value of around 1.6bn.
The revenue synergies are expected on a recurring basis, reaching a run-rate level in the fourth year post-Completion.
a The multiples are calculated based on: an Acquisition price of 12.5bn less the NPV of the operating cost and capex synergies after integration costs of approximately 3.0bn: and EE Adjusted EBITDA for the twelve months to 31 December 2014 of 1,589m and OpFCF for the twelve months to 31 December 2014 of 993m both adjusted to remove management and brand fees of 146m, restructuring costs of 77m and exceptional expenses of 336m, as reported in EEs results for the year ended 31 December 2014. b After operating cost and capex synergies and before integration costs.
c After operating cost and capex synergies and before integration costs, and excluding purchase accounting adjustments relating to the Acquisition.
This statement regarding earnings enhancement is not intended to be a profit forecast and should not be interpreted to mean that the earnings per Ordinary Share for the current or future financial periods will necessarily be greater than those for the relevant preceding financial period.
