66 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 NOTES TO ThE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Preparation of the financial statements IFRS 9 was published in July 2014 and will be effective for periods These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in beginning on or after 1 January 2018 subject to endorsement by accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS the EU.
It is applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities, Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and and covers the classification, measurement, impairment and fideInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with a interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated new hedge accounting model.
financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical effective we expect to have a material impact on the group.
cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial Presentation of specific items statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately British Telecommunications plc, the parent company.
identify trading results before specific items.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to reorganisation an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specific From 1 April 2014 BT Conferencing has moved from BT Business items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This into BT Global Services.
This simplifies the way we provide integrated presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance collaboration solutions to our global customers.
BT Security has is measured by management and reported to the Board and the moved from our central group functions within Other into BT Global Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis Services.
Security is of increasing importance to our customers, and of the trading results of the group.
In determining whether an event we believe that this move helps us better compete in the market and or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as take full advantage of global opportunities.
well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of In order to present historical information on a consistent basis, we occurrence.
have revised comparatives for the years ended 31 March 2014 and Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be 31 March 2013 in BT Global Services, BT Business and Other.
There appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is is no impact on the total group results.
The net assets including consistent with the way that financial performance is measured goodwill have been reallocated to the appropriate cash generating by management and reported to the Board and the Operating units to reflect this reorganisation see note 11.
The overall impact on Committee of BT Group plc.
the lines of business is disclosed in note 4.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures new and amended accounting standards adopted with no significant used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting impact on the group the above definition and which have been presented as specific items The following new and amended accounting standards adopted in the current and or prior years include disposals of businesses and during the year did not have any significant impact on the group.
investments, regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Presentation Offsetting Financial charges, property rationalisation programmes, net interest on Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 pensions and the settlement of multiple tax years.
In the event that IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge other items meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from Accounting year to year, they are also treated as specific items.
IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36.
Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note8.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements are not yet effective The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The following standards have been issued and are effective for requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also accounting periods ending on or after 1 January 2015 and are requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of expected to have an impact on the group financial statements.
applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
issued and is expected to be effective for periods beginning on or Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and after 1January 2017, subject to consultation on potential deferral by associated disclosures with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee.
one year and endorsement by the EU.
The areas involving a higher degree ofjudgement or complexity are described below.
IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard requires entities to apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a relative standalone selling basis, based on a five-step model.
The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of this standard.
