130 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Background Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until 1981, provided by the Post Office, which was a government department until 1969 when it was established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the postal and telecommunications services of the Post Office became the responsibility of two separate corporations, with British Telecommunications under the trading name of British Telecom taking over the telecommunications business.
British Telecommunications plc, the successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, was incorporated in England and Wales on 1 April 1984 as a public limited company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold all of its shareholding in three public offerings.
BT Group plc was formed when the mmO2 business, comprising what had been BTs mobile activities in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, was demerged on 19 November 2001.
British Telecommunications plc BT plc shares ceased trading on the London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges on 16 November 2001.
BT Group plcs shares commenced trading on the London and New York stock exchanges on 19 November 2001.
As a result of the transaction BT plc became a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group Investments Limited BTGI, itself wholly owned by BT Group plc.
Accordingly, the ordinary shares of BT plc were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange on 19 November 2001.
The registered office address of BT is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The companys agent in the US is Richard Nohe, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, US.
Articles of Association Articles The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
New Articles of Association were adopted on 5 August 2010, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
Since August 2010, the provisions in relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of shareholders passing a resolution to this effect.
Under the 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
Articles a Voting rights In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a member is, in either case, the person registered in the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Subject to certain restrictions, on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of members is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any member at the meeting who is entitled to vote or the members proxy.
b Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: ii divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a smaller amount and the resolution may decide that, as between the shares resulting from the division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
c Dividends The companys members can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, in addition to the powers of the Board, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim and final dividends.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of share on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 10 years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and belong to the company again unless the directors decide otherwise.
d Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of a court or by a court the liquidator can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the members, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between members or different groups of members.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon trusts for the benefit of members which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be finalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present members can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under BTs Articles which could give them a liability.
