CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Valuations Committee report INTRODUCTION The Valuations Committee plays an important role in providing the Board with assurance that the valuation process is sound and independently challenged.
David Hutchison Chairman, Valuations Committee INTRODUCTION OVERVIEW OF THE VALUATION PROCESS The Committee receives a detailed report from the Group The Committee has been in operation since Finance Director recommending a proposed valuation of before the Companys flotation in 1994 but the investment portfolio.
This report highlights the key themes by business line and the main drivers of value is reporting directly to shareholders for the movement analysed between performance, multiple first time this year.
The Valuations movements and other factors.
The Committee also Committee reports to the Audit and reviews selected material assets in further detail: Compliance Committee and the Board on examples of such assets covered during the year included Action, Basic-Fit, Scandlines and new investments made the valuation of the Groups investment during FY2015.
It meets quarterly, to coincide with In advance of the full year and half year reporting, the Groups external financial reporting management hold detailed individual portfolio company requirements.
It reviews and challenges reviews with the respective investment teams.
All the assumptions behind managements non-executive Directors are free to attend these meetings.
Non-executive Directors, including members of the Valuations Committee, attended a significant proportion of The Committees activity is principally focused on the all the meetings held in September 2014 and March 2015 Private Equity investments as a high level of judgement is and were represented at all of the top five Private Equity required to value the unquoted portfolio.
The Committee portfolio company review meetings.
has increased its review of the Groups Debt Management investments during the year as the capital allocation to As part of its external audit, Ernst & Young LLP undertakes that business has grown.
Limited time is devoted to a separate review of the proposed investment portfolio Infrastructure due to the fact that its principal investment valuation to determine that the valuation policy is being in 3i Infrastructure plc is quoted.
complied with and that there is consistent application and support for the underlying assumptions.
Ahead of the The Committee is responsible for keeping the Groups year-end audit, Ernst & Young LLPs specialist valuations valuation policy under review and recommending any team independently reviews a selection of assets to changes to the policy to Audit and Compliance Committee provide further assurance on their overall audit conclusion and the Board.
The policy is reviewed at least annually.
on the appropriateness of 3is portfolio valuation.
The Groups valuation policy is based on the International Private Equity and Valuation IPEV guidelines which set out recommended practice for fair valuing unquoted investments within the IFRS framework.
MEMBERSHIP DURING THE YEAR Name Membership status David Hutchison Chairman Non-executive Director Chairman and Member since December 2013 Sir Adrian Montague Non-executive Director Member since July 2010 Martine Verluyten Non-executive Director Member since 2012 Simon Borrows Chief Executive Member since 2012 Julia Wilson Group Finance Director Member since 2009 Meetings are also attended by other members of the Executive Committee as required, the Group Financial Controller and the external Auditors.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Valuations Committee report continued FY2015 UPDATE The Committee focused on the following significant issues in the year: Areas of judgement What the Committee did Private Equity Earnings and multiple assumptions Earnings data is received monthly from Private Equity portfolio The majority of the portfolio is valued using a multiple of EBITDA companies and monitored closely by management.
This requires judgement as the earnings of the portfolio earnings may be adjusted in managements proposed valuations, company may be adjusted so that they are considered for example, to reflect a full years trading of an acquired maintainable.
business, removing profit from discontinued activities or excluding exceptional transaction costs.
Material adjustments There is also a significant degree of judgement in selecting the are highlighted to the Committee in the quarterly report for appropriate set of comparable quoted companies to determine the review and approval.
appropriate multiple to generate an enterprise value.
Multiples are selected by reference to quoted comparable companies, M&A Given the strong performance of many quoted markets in the transactions and input in certain cases from corporate finance year, management proposed reducing a significant proportion of advisors.
We also take into account growth profile, diversification multiples used to below the multiple implied by the quoted and leverage refinancing risk.
Any such adjustments are reviewed by the Committee.
Ernst & Young LLP also specifically review and The multiple implied by the quoted comparable may be reduced if consider the appropriateness of any such adjustments and the longer-term view cycle or exit plan supports the use of more reports to the Committee.
Imminent sale assets At any point in time it is likely that a number of potential exit Assets that are within active sales processes are reviewed by processes from the portfolio are underway.
Judgement is applied the Committee including details such as the timeline to potential by management as to the likely eventual exit proceeds and completion, the number and make-up of bidders for investments, certainty of completion.
This means that in some cases an asset execution and due diligence risks and regulatory or competition may not be moved to an imminent sales basis until very shortly clearance issues.
Management propose a treatment for each before completion: in other cases the switch may occur on signing.
asset which the Committee reviews.
However as a general rule an asset moves to an imminent sale basis only when a process is materially complete and the remaining risks are estimated to be minimal, given the normal completion risk around unquoted equity transactions.
Assets valued using a DCF basis For assets valued using DCF techniques the key valuation Material assumptions and changes to these assumptions are judgements relate to longer-term assumptions that drive the reviewed by the Committee.
This may include third-party underlying business plan and appropriate discount rates.
Sensitivity to assumptions is also noted.
Discount rates are selected by management with reference to market transactions, weighted average cost of capital calculations and other public data.
Any material changes are reviewed by the Committee.
Debt Management Valuation process The level of capital deployed into Debt Management investments As the level of capital invested in Debt Management investments at 31 March 2015 was 176 million March 2014: 143 million.
has continued to increase, the Committee has also continued to 70% of this relates to investment in CLO equity where there is review the valuations policy and refine the process.
The use by limited trading and therefore limited third-party evidence of value.
management of independent data supporting the proposed Consequently, judgement is required on the choice of basis to use, valuations has been increased, and the quarterly valuation report including use of internal DCF models.
includes a range indicated from all available data points, including internal DCF models, against the proposed valuation.
The range and actual values are reviewed by the Committee.
70 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As part of its challenge and review process, the Committee: Considered the management information provided to support the Committees review of the matter, including the strength and operation of the internal controls and managements responses to any challenges raised by the Committee members or Ernst & Young LLP: Sought assurance from the external Auditors as to whether and how they had considered each of these areas: Reviewed the consistency of the views of management and the external Auditors.
The Committee was satisfied that the application of the policy and process was appropriate during the period, and recommended the portfolio valuation to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board at each quarter end for approval by the Board.
PORTFOLIO TRENDS The Committee Chairman and management conducted a review of the valuation outcomes in the portfolio since 2012.
The Committee Chairman and Group Finance Director reported to the Board in May 2015 on the key observations.
It is intended to conduct similar reviews at least annually as an additional review of the overall portfolio development, alongside the specific quarterly valuation process.
By order of the Board D A M Hutchison Chairman, Valuations Committee 13 May 2015 READ MORE Further information on the Valuation Committees terms of reference can befound on our website www.
com 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 71
