PORTFOLIO AND OTHER INFORMATION Glossary Alternative Investment Funds AIFs At 31 March 2015, 3i EBITDA multiple Calculated as the enterprise value over EBITDA, it is Investments plc as AIFM, managed four AIFs.
These were 3i Group plc, used to determine the value of a company.
3i Growth Capital Fund, 3i Eurofund V and the European Middle Market Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for the Loan Fund.
day-to-day running of the Group and comprises: the Chief Executive, Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD became Group Finance Director, the Managing Partners of the Private Equity, effective from July 2013.
As a result, at 31 March 2015, 3i Investments Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses and the Groups plc is registered as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, General Counsel.
which in turn manages four AIFs.
Fair value movements on investment entity subsidiaries The Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM is the regulated movement in the carrying value of Group subsidiaries, classified as manager of AIFs.
Within 3i, this is 3i Investments plc.
investment entities under IFRS 10, between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates at Assets under management AUM A measure of the total assets that the date of the movement.
3i has to invest or manages on behalf of shareholders and third-party investors for which it receives a fee.
Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL FVTPL is an IFRS measurement basis permitted for assets and liabilities which meet Barclays Infrastructure Fund Management business BIFM certain criteria.
Gains and losses on assets and liabilities measured Acquired by 3i in November 2013 when it managed two active unlisted as FVTPL are recognised directly in the income statement.
funds that invest in UK and European PPP and energy projects, with assets under management of over 700 million.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees Board The Board of Directors of the Company.
that are earned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to Capital redemption reserve is established in respect of the a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are redemption of the Companys ordinary shares.
recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are Capital reserve The capital reserve recognises all profits that are recognised as that service is provided.
capital in nature or have been allocated to capital.
Following changes to the Companies Act the Company amended its Articles of Association at Fees receivable from external funds are fees received by the Group, the 2012 Annual General Meeting to allow these profits to be from third parties, for the management of private equity, infrastructure distributable by way of a dividend.
Carried interest is accrued on the realised and unrealised profits Foreign exchange on investments arises on investments made in generated taking relevant performance hurdles into consideration, currencies that are different from the functional currency of the Group assuming all investments were realised at the prevailing book value.
Investments are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date Carry is only actually paid or received when the relevant performance of the transaction.
At each subsequent reporting date investments are hurdles are met, and the accrual is discounted to reflect expected translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Fund Management A segment of the business focused on generating Carry receivable is generated on third-party capital over the life of the profits from the management of private equity, infrastructure and debt relevant fund when relevant performance criteria are met.
We pay carry to our investment teams on proprietary capital invested Fund Management Operating profit comprises fee income from third and share a proportion of carry receivable from third-party funds.
parties as well as a synthetic fee received from the Proprietary Capital This total carry payable is provided through schemes which have business, less operating expenses incurred by the Fund Management been structured historically over two year vintages to maximise business.
Gross investment return GIR GIR includes profit and loss on Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO A form of securitisation where realisations, increases and decreases in the value of the investments payments from multiple loans are pooled together and passed on to we hold at the end of a period, any income received from the different classes of owners in various tranches.
investments such as interest, dividends and fee income and foreign exchange movements.
GIR is measured as a percentage of the opening Company 3i Group plc.
portfolio value and is the principal tool for assessing our Proprietary Discounting The reduction in present value at a given date of a future Capital business.
cash transaction at an assumed rate, using a discount factor reflecting Income from loans and receivables is recognised as it accrues.
When the time value of money.
the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal Dividend income from equity investments and CLO capital is value of a loan the Group recognises a provision against any interest recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income when the accrued from the date of the assessment going forward until the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
investment is assessed to have recovered in value.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and is used as the typical measure of portfolio company performance.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 147 PORTFOLIO AND OTHER INFORMATION Glossary continued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS are Public Private Partnership PPP A PPP is a government service accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards or private business venture which is funded and operated through a Board IASB.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are partnership of government and one or more private sector companies.
required to be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments Investment basis Accounts prepared assuming that IFRS 10 had not The difference between the fair value of the consideration received been introduced.
Under this basis, we fair value portfolio companies less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the at the level we believe provides the most comprehensive financial repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start information.
of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates at the date of disposal.
The commentary in the Strategic Report refers to this basis as we believe it provides a more understandable view of our performance.
Revenue reserve recognises all profits that are revenue in nature or have been allocated to revenue.
Key Performance Indicators KPI This is a measure by reference to which the development, performance or position of the Group can be Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner measured effectively.
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive who is considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
All Money multiple Calculated as the cumulative distributions plus any transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms residual value divided by paid-in capital.
length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated Net asset value NAV NAV is a measure of the fair value of our on consolidation.
Income and expenses directly associated with each proprietary investments and the net costs of operating the business.
segment are included in determining business segment performance.
Operating cash profit Defined as the difference between our cash Share-based payment reserve is a reserve to recognise those income cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash income amounts in retained earnings in respect of share-based payments.
from our proprietary capital portfolio and our operating expenses, Synthetic fee Internal fee payable to the Fund Management business excluding restructuring costs.
for managing our proprietary capital.
Operating profit Includes gross investment return, management fee Total return Comprises operating profit less tax charge less movement income generated from managing external funds, the costs of running in actuarial valuation of the historic defined benefit pension scheme.
our business, net interest payable, movements in the fair value of derivatives, other losses and carried interest.
Total shareholder return TSR This is the measure of the overall return to shareholders and includes the movement in the share price Portfolio income is that which is directly related to the return from and any dividends paid, assuming that all dividends are reinvested on individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable their ex-dividend date.
that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
It is comprised of dividend income, income from loans and Translation reserve comprises all exchange differences arising from receivables and fee income.
the translation of the financial statements of international operations.
Proprietary Capital A segment of the business focused on generating Underlying fund management profit Calculated as fee income minus profits from shareholders capital which is available to invest.
operating expenses related to Fund Management activities, excluding restructuring and amortisation costs.
Proprietary Capital operating profit The profit comprises gross investment return, operating expenses, a fee paid to the Fund Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments The Management business and balance sheet funding expenses such movement in the carrying value of investments between the start and as interest payable.
end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates at the date of the movement.
Value weighted earnings growth The growth in last 12 month earnings, when comparing to the preceding 12 months.
This measure is the key driver of our private equity portfolio performance.
148 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed digitally by Pureprint Group without the use of film separations, plates and associated processing chemicals.
99% of all dry waste associated with this production has been recycled.
This report is printed on Symbol Freelife Satin, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper is FSC certified and contains a minimum of 25% selected recycled material.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chainofcustody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finisheddocument in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an  system againstwhich an organisation can beaccredited by a third party.
3i Group plc Registered office: CarbonNeutral 16 Palace Street The CO emissions associated with London SW1E 5JD 2 the production and distribution of UK our Annual Report and accounts 2014 have been measured and reduced Registered in England No.
1142830 to net zero through verified carbon offset An investment company as defined projects 100% renewable energy projects.
by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 3i Group plc 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 THR27379 Register online To receive shareholder communications electronically, including annual reports and notices of meetings, please register at: www.
com investor-relations  Sign up for 3i news To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial news and press releases, sign up for alerts at: www.
com investor-relations financial-news email-alerts www.
