CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and Committees BOARD AND COMMITTEES STRUCTURE HOW THE BOARD OPERATES The Board is responsible for ensuring that there is an The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
effective organisational and reporting structure in place He also organises its business and sets its agenda.
such that there are clear reporting lines within the Group Inaddition to the Chairman, there are currently six and well defined roles and responsibilities.
This is to independent non-executive Directors who have a range ensure that the right decisions are being made with ofstrong and complementary skills.
involvement from the right people.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Principal The Board is assisted by various Principal Committees Committees during the last year is shown on page 58. ofthe Board which report regularly to the Board.
Before each Board and Committee meeting, relevant TheBoard committee structure is outlined on page 51. reports and papers, including financial performance data The membership of these Committees is regularly and detailed updates on the progress and implementation reviewed by the Board.
When considering Board of the strategic plan where appropriate, are circulated to Committee membership and chairmanship, the Board Directors.
The Board has the opportunity to discuss these aims to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on reports and updates and to challenge directly the particular Directors.
Executive Directors and other senior management, who attend all or part of the Board meetings where relevant.
These Board Committees have clearly defined terms ofreference.
The terms of reference of the Audit and The key responsibilities and areas of focus for the Compliance Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Board are: Remuneration Committee and the Valuations Committee Strategy contribute to the development of, and agree, are available at www.
This includes through review and Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility discussion of reports and updates at Board meetings as of the Chief Executive.
To assist him in this role, the Chief well as through the annual strategy review meeting Executive has established a number of additional which is attended by the Board and, where relevant, Committees.
These are also outlined on page 51. members of the Executive Committee.
Group financial and operational performance review and monitor the performance of the Group, including through regular reporting and discussions with the Executive Committee and other senior management.
Senior management ensure that the Executive Committee has the skills and resources to deliver thestrategy and that appropriate succession and contingency planning is in place.
Evaluation and composition review the performance of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they are effective.
Ensure that the Board and its Committees comprise competent and capable individuals with a range of skills and experience who bring independent views to the decisions being made.
Internal controls maintain an appropriate internal control framework.
Risk ensure that there are effective risk management policies and processes in place and an appropriate governance structure.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
This is described on page 57.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of staff below the Executive Committee and the formulation and implementation of risk management policies and processes.
50 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 3i GROUP PLC BOARD PRINCIPAL BOARD COMMITTEES Audit and Compliance Remuneration Nominations Valuations Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Director and senior Board appointments, Valuation policy risk and internal management and size, balance and investment controls remuneration and Group and composition valuations remuneration structure of the Board Caroline Banszky Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague David Hutchison Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Jonathan Asquith Alistair Cox Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague Alistair Cox David Hutchison Caroline Banszky Simon Borrows Alistair Cox Martine Verluyten David Hutchison Julia Wilson Simon Thompson Martine Verluyten In addition to its Principal Committees, the Board also has a number of other standing Committees established to consider specific items of business on an ad hoc basis as required.
These include the Treasury Transactions Committee and the Brand and Values Committee.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Principal decisionAcquisition, management Oversees the Groups Independent review making body in respect of and disposal of risk management of conflict issues managing the business investments framework Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Kevin Dunn Chairman Menno Antal Menno Antal Menno Antal Ben Loomes Kevin Dunn Alan Giddins Kevin Dunn Julia Wilson Jeremy Ghose Ben Loomes Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Ian Lobley Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Phil White Ben Loomes Phil White Julia Wilson Phil White Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Director, Group Compliance Director, Internal Audit 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and Committees continued DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES The Board approved division of responsibilities between the Directors is summarised below.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors Leads the Board in setting its Direct charge of the Group on a Scrutinise the performance of agenda, agreeing strategy, day-to-day basis and is management in meeting agreed monitoring financial and accountable to the Board for the objectives and monitor the operational performance, and financial and operational reporting of performance.
establishing the Groups risk performance of the Group.
Seek assurance on the integrity appetite.
Leads the Executive Committee of the financial information and Responsible for organising the to develop and implement the that financial controls and business of the Board, ensuring Groups strategy and manage systems of risk management are its effectiveness, and risk and the internal control robust and defensible.
maintaining an effective system framework.
Determine appropriate levels of of internal controls.
Chairs the Investment remuneration for Executive Ensures that non-executive Committee to review the Directors and Executive Directors receive relevant and acquisition, management and Committee and have a prime accurate information to facilitate disposal of investments.
role in appointing Directors and anopen and effective discussion.
Reports to the Board on financial This includes ensuring that the and operational performance Constructively challenge and non-executive Directors receive and progress in delivering the help develop proposals on regular reports on shareholders strategic objectives.
strategy: this occurs at meetings views on the Group.
of the Board, and in particular at Regularly engages with Responsible for the composition the annual review meeting to shareholders and other key ofthe Board and facilitates discuss ongoing strategy, the stakeholders on the Groups theeffective contribution of most recent of which took place activities and progress.
non-executive Directors and in December 2014. constructive relations between Executive and non-executive Directors.
EFFECTIVENESS During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation Amsterdam combined with visits to investee companies of its own performance and that of its Committees and was judged to have been valuable to non-executive individual Directors.
On this occasion, the process was led Directors and it was decided to hold further Board by the Chairman and conducted internally: the performance meetings in non-UK locations in future.
Directors identified evaluation had been externally facilitated two years for further consideration specific topics which they previously by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited.
believed would be particularly relevant to the Group inthe The Chairman held one-on-one discussions informed by coming year.
achecklist with all Directors and the Company Secretary.
Following enhancements to Board processes made in The results of the evaluation process were reported to, theprevious year, suggestions were made for further and discussed by, the Board.
In addition, the Chairman improvements.
These included plans to improve the way provided individual feedback to Directors.
inwhich the Board as a whole could engage more fully in The evaluation included consideration of the overall and support the work of Valuations Committee and composition of the Board including plans for non-executive Remuneration Committee.
Directors identified the In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr J P Asquith backgrounds and experiences which would be desirable in led a review by the Directors of the performance of the future non-executive Directors to complement the Boards Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board existing skills.
The recent Board meeting held in and provided feedback to the Chairman.
52 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015
