CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Compliance Committee report INTRODUCTION The Audit and Compliance Committees priorities remain the effectiveness of internal control and ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
Caroline Banszky Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee Other attendees were invited from time to time depending INTRODUCTION on thenature of agenda items.
With the retirement in July 2014 of Richard The Chairman of the Committee also had meetings with Meddings, whohad been Chairman of the anumber of these individuals separately, providing an Audit and Compliance Committee the additional forum to discuss specific issues.
During the Committee since October 2010, Caroline year, the Committee held private discussions with the Group Finance Director, the Director, Internal Audit, the Banszky was appointed as Chairman with Director, Group Compliance and with the external Auditors effect from January 2015 after a period of in the absence of management.
In the For the first time, this Annual Report includes a separate interim, Jonathan Asquith chaired the report from the Valuations Committee.
The role of the Committee as Acting Chairman.
Committee to review and recommend the valuation of the investment portfolio remains unchanged.
However the MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDEES detail on the key valuation considerations and the review and challenge undertaken in the year is now included in The Board is satisfied that Mrs Banszky and Mr Asquith the Valuation Committee Report on page 69. both have recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further detail on each Directors experience can be found in the Directors biographies on page 48.
Throughout the year, the Committee received regular reports on a number of matters including the valuation ofthe investment portfolio, internal audit findings and follow-up work, accounting issues and judgements, and legal and regulatory matters.
The Committee received presentations from members of senior management including the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, General Counsel, Group Financial Controller, the Director, Internal Audit and the Director, Group Compliance, as well as fromthe external Auditors Ernst & Young LLP.
MEMBERSHIP DURING THE YEAR Name Membership status Caroline Banszky Chairman Non-executive Director Member since 17 July 2014 Chairman since 1 January 2015 Jonathan Asquith Non-executive Director Member since March 2011 Acting Chairman between 17 July 2014 and 1 January 2015 Alistair Cox Non-executive Director Member since October 2009 Richard Meddings Non-executive Director Retired as Chairman and member on 17 July 2014 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Compliance Committee report continued WHAT THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REVIEWED IN THE YEAR The Committee met six times during the year and the attendance of members at meetings is shown in the table on page58.
During the year the Committees activities included considering the following: Annual and half-year reports Confirmation of external Auditor independence Quarterly trading updates Policy and approval for non-audit fees Developments in financial reporting Audit plan and process, fees and engagement External reporting being fair, balanced and Auditor performance and effectiveness understandable Regulatory position with regard to audit tendering Going concern Key areas of accounting judgements and estimates Financial External reporting audit Internal control Risk and risk management reviews 3is system of internal control Valuation reports and recommending the and risk management investment asset valuation to the Board External and internal audit reports Cyber security and business continuity Regulatory changes and compliance Regular reviews of regulatory changes, projects to implement and compliance Annual effectiveness reviews of internal audit and internal control framework Annual report on tax risk Litigation Liquidity and going concern In addition to the areas of significant accounting judgement implementation of our new regulatory reporting processes set out opposite and monitoring the effectiveness of 3is and systems and ongoing compliance with the new risk management, discussed further below, the Committee requirements which were found to be satisfactory.
particularly focused on the changing regulatory The Committee assessed how the risks associated with a environment, the finalisation of implementing a new new system implementation and related process changes Private Equity accounting system and the increasing had been mitigated.
The Committee requested that materiality of carried interest payable accrual.
Internal Audit undertake periodic reviews of the project, The regulatory and tax environment has been going including the change management process and a post through a period of unprecedented change.
It also requested a report on the been a significant increase in reporting to regulators and effectiveness of the system from the Group Financial tax authorities as well as changes to our operating model Controller.
In addition the external Auditors considered the in accordance with the new requirements of AIFMD, EMIR, effective working of the system and application controls as CRD IV, CASS rules and FATCA.
This has placed additional part of the external audit.
The Committee was satisfied burdens on the compliance and finance functions in that the risks were being appropriately managed.
The Committee has received quarterly updates The improved investment performance and good flow on the key regulatory and tax developments and of realisations led the Committee to review the carried outstanding projects from both Finance and Group interest payable accrual and payment processes.
Where necessary external professional Audit undertook a review of the processes and accounting service firms have been engaged to review both our policies.
Following the completion of this review and interpretation of the requirements and the ongoing discussion with the external Auditors, the Committee was compliance as well as the processes implemented to satisfied that carried interest was being appropriately gather new data.
The Committee also requested that managed and accounted for.
Internal Audit undertake a series of reviews to further test 66 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Area of significant accounting judgement What the Committee reviewed and concluded Valuation of the Proprietary Capital portfolio The most material area of judgement in the financial statements, On behalf of the Board, the Committee considered quarterly and noted as a key risk by the external Auditor, relates to the reports from the Chairman of the Valuations Committee and the valuation of the unquoted Proprietary Capital portfolio, which at Group Finance Director, with particular focus on the assumptions 31 March 2015 was 3,114 million, or 80% of net assets, under supporting the unquoted asset investments, any valuation the Investment basis.
uncertainties and the proposed disclosure in the financial statements.
In recognition of the importance of this area the Board has established a separate Valuations Committee to review the For further information see the report of the Valuation valuations policy, process and application to individual Committee on pages 69 to 71. investments.
This Committee provides quarterly recommendations to the Committee and the Board.
Fair, balanced and understandable Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board should The Committee reviewed the Interim and Annual financial establish arrangements to ensure the Annual Report presents a statements as well as the quarterly trading updates with fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of disclosure position and prospects.
and to enable the Board ultimately to provide the fair, balanced and understandable confirmation to shareholders in the On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Compliance Committee Annual report.
The Committee considers that the Annual report considered the procedures required to ensure that this statement is consistent with its understanding of the business.
The 2015 Annual report has been enhanced, in parallel with the FRCs Clear and Concise reporting programme, to ensure that it is less cluttered and duplication is removed.
A report highlighting the relevant considerations was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the year end and a summary of the procedures undertaken was prepared alongside the Annual report.
Ongoing development of IFRS 10 and the presentation of 3is results The Group adopted IFRS 10 in its 2014 accounts and introduced the The Committee monitored feedback received from external non-GAAP Investment basis financial statements to ensure that its users of the financial statements on the presentation of the results remained understandable.
non-GAAP Investment basis and was satisfied that maintenance of the Investment basis financial statements was appropriate.
The Committee continued to receive regular updates on developments in IFRS 10, including the amendment in 2014, and to endorse the engagement of management with the FRC, IASB and relevant industry bodies.
The external Auditors also confirmed that the inclusion of the Investment basis remained consistent with the prior year.
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL REVIEWS A report summarising each quarterly GRC meeting, along with the risk report considered, is circulated to the Audit The Committee has responsibility on behalf of the Board and Compliance Committee for review and discussion.
for overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups risk The risk report details the principal risks, which are management and internal control systems.
It monitors the derived from the Group Risk process, along with activities of the Group Risk Committee GRC, the risk commentary on how the exposure to these risks has management processes in place and the activities of the moved in the quarter.
The Committee also receives reports Internal Audit function, including its reporting on the from Internal Audit quarterly, covering change effectiveness of controls, the use of the Groups management and other areas of identified higher risk.
whistleblowing facility and any changes in approach or issues relating to the UK Bribery Act.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit and Compliance Committee report continued The General Counsel and Group Finance Director prepare The Committee Chairman approves all assignments an annual report on the internal controls framework for allocated to Ernst & Young LLP over a defined limit, other presentation to the Committee.
The review documents than those related to due diligence within the Groups the components of the internal control framework and investment process.
The key principle of our policy is that highlights the key developments in the year.
A separate permission to engage the external Auditor will be refused commentary on the operation and effectiveness of the when a threat to independence and or objectivity is internal control framework over the year is independently perceived.
Appointments in relation to the investment prepared by Internal Audit.
The Group maintains a process are independent of the audit team and are framework of controls related to key financial processes approved separately by the Investment Committee and management of the associated risks.
The but are reported to the Committee Chairman.
effectiveness of such controls is reviewed by Internal Details of the non-audit fees paid to the Auditors are Audit, either through dedicated reviews or in the course disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The of other reviews over the course of the year.
Group Committee concluded that all of these fees fell within its Compliance carries out desk based monitoring, business criteria for engaging Ernst & Young LLP and that the unit and thematic reviews in relation to compliance activities did not undermine the Auditors independence policies and other regulatory matters.
The Committee reviewed the scope, activity and Assessing external audit effectiveness effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and met The Committee reviews the effectiveness of Ernst & Young privately with the Director, Internal Audit.
LLP through the use of questionnaires completed by management, by considering the extent of their EXTERNAL AUDIT contribution at its meetings throughout the course Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups statutory external of the year and in one-to-one meetings.
Auditor since before the Company was listed on the The 2015 evaluation also reviewed the quality of the audit London Stock Exchange in 1994.
The Committee assesses process, the use of Ernst & Young LLPs valuation practice the independence and objectivity, qualifications and to support the audit of the portfolio valuations, the effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP on an annual basis.
technical knowledge of the team and staff turnover within The Committee also concludes on whether to recommend the Ernst & Young LLP audit team and the Committee the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to concluded that the audit was effective.
Audit tender Auditor appointment and independence During the year the Committee reviewed the effect of the The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the UK Corporate Governance Code, the EU Audit Regulation independence and objectivity of the Companys Auditors.
It 2014 and the Statutory Service Order 2014 issued by reviews the nature and extent of the services provided by the UK Competitions and Market Authority CMA with them, the level of their fees and the element comprising respect to audit relationships.
Due to the extent of the non-audit fees.
changes to the business following the Strategic Review in The Committee reviewed the Auditors fee structure, 2012, the adoption of IFRS 10 and the extent of existing resourcing and terms of engagement in the year.
The total relationships with alternative audit firms across the Group, audit fee for the year was 2.0 million 2014: 2.0 million.
the Committee concluded that it would take advantage of The Committee is satisfied that this fee is appropriate in the transitional arrangements in relation to auditor respect of the audit services provided and that an effective rotation as outlined by the Financial Reporting Council and audit can be provided.
The Committee oversees the the CMA.
The Committee currently plans that Ernst & Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Young LLP will be retained at least until the conclusion of external Auditor.
The Committee continues to see benefits the term of its current lead partner in 2018.
A full tender for the Group in engaging Ernst & Young LLP where: will therefore be conducted no later than 2018.
Work is closely related to the audit: By order of the Board A detailed understanding of the Group is required: and C J Banszky Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee Ernst & Young LLP is able to provide at least an equivalent quality and or value service than other 13 May 2015 potential providers.
READ MORE Further information on the Audit and Compliance Committees terms of reference can be found on our website www.
com 68 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015
