Financials and other information Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment portfolio DCF of 3i Infrastructure and its consolidated subsidiaries the Group is set DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value out below in order to provide more detailed information than is included is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment using within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future cash flows the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the investment.
valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity The terminal value attributes a residual value to the investee company and Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and at the end of the projected discrete cash flow period.
The discount Venture Capital Association.
rate will be estimated for each investment derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and information specific to the Basis of valuation investment or market sector.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date in compliance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Proportionate share of net assets Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups participants at the measurement date.
share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying General investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its assessment In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature of assets held in is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the the fund.
In measuring the fair value, the net asset value of the fund is investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
adjusted, as necessary, to reflect restrictions on redemptions, future The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently commitments, illiquid nature of the investments and other specific include adjustments based on informed and experience-based factors of the fund.
judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation Sales basis of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign a fair value to a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making an asset in cases where offers have been received as part of an necessary estimates.
This may either support the value derived Investments may include portfolio assets and other net assets from another methodology or may be used as the primary valuation liabilities balances.
The methodology for valuing portfolio assets is basis.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds set out below.
Any net assets liabilities within intermediate holding to derive the valuation where appropriate.
companies are valued in line with the Group accounting policy and held at fair value or approximate to fair value.
Cost less fair value adjustment Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, Quoted investments is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing bid price at the valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments valued reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Proportionate share of net assets Sales basis Cost less any fair value adjustments required 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 95 Financials and other information Information for shareholders Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Financial calendar Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue Ex-dividend date for final dividend 18 June 2015 and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Record date for final dividend 19 June 2015 or are offered an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly Annual General Meeting 7 July 2015 based abroad.
Extraordinary General Meeting 7 July 2015 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this Final dividend expected to be paid 10 July 2015 way usually lose their money.
1 Special dividend expected to be paid July 2015 Most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
Half-yearly results November 2015 1 The record date for participation in the special dividend and the ex-dividend date for the special dividend will be announced in June 2015 through the issue of a Protect yourself shareholder circular for the Extraordinary General Meeting.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research Registrars reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, the 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
registrar details are as follows: 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register to Capita Registrars Jersey Limited ensure that they are authorised.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
Call the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Helpline on Channel Islands 08001116768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you e-mail: registrars@capita.
je are told they are out of date.
Search the Financial Conduct Authoritys list of unauthorised firms Shareholder helpline: 44 0 20 8639 3399 and individuals to avoid doing business with.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If you use Website an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you For full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
please visit our investor relations website www.
com If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications Report a scam electronically, including your annual reports and notices of meetings, If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the please go to www.
com e-comms for details of how Financial Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at to register.
uk, where you can find out about the latest investment Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website at scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. www.
com e-comms 3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 Registered in Jersey No.
95682 3i Infrastructure plc is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 96 This report is printed on Symbol Freelife Satin, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper isFSC certified and contains a minimum of 25% selected recycled material.
Printed by Pureprint Group using environmental print technology and vegetable-based inks throughout.
99%of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 www.
com Annual report online To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please go to: For details of how to register, log on: www.
