Financials and other information Significant accounting policies a the Company obtains funds from one or more investors Corporate information for the purpose of providing those investor s with investment 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in management services: Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for b the Company commits to its investor s that its business purpose is the year to 31 March 2015 comprise the financial statements of the to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as defined in IFRS 10 income, or both: and Consolidated Financial Statements together referred to as the Group.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 does not require the directors of a c the Company measures and evaluates the performance of company to present separate financial statements where consolidated substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
financial statements are presented and therefore the financial The Company meets the criteria as follows: results and position of the Company are not presented alongside the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
the stated strategy of the Company is to deliver stable returns to shareholders through a mix of income yield and capital appreciation: The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of the Company provides investment management services and Directors on 11 May 2015. has several investors who pool their funds to gain access to infrastructure related investment opportunities that they might not Statement of compliance have had access to individually: and These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Company has elected to measure and evaluate the performance International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting of all of its investments on a fair value basis.
The fair value method is Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the used to represent the Companys performance in its communication International Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the to the market, including investor presentations.
In addition, the European Union IFRS.
Company reports fair value information internally to Directors, who use fair value as the primary measurement attribute to These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance evaluate performance.
withand in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and meets the definition in the Basis of preparation standard.
This conclusion will be reassessed on an annual basis.
The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the ii Assessment of investments as structured entities A structured functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest hundred entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
Additional disclosures are required by IFRS 12 for interests in The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS structured entities, whether they are consolidated or not.
The Directors requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions have assessed whether the entities in which the Group invests should that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets be classified as structured entities and have concluded that none of the and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated entities should be classified as structured entities as voting rights are assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are the dominant factor in deciding who controls these entities.
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of determining the carrying values of assets iii Assessment of consolidation requirements The Group holds and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
significant stakes in the majority of its investee companies and must Actual results may differ from these estimates.
exercise judgment in the level of control of the underlying investee company that is obtained in order to assess whether the company should be classified as a subsidiary.
Basis of consolidation The Group must also exercise judgment in whether a subsidiary In accordance with IFRS 10 as amended, entities that meet the provides investment-related services or activities and therefore should definition of an investment entity are required to fair value certain be consolidated or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Refer to subsidiaries through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial significant accounting policy A Classification for further details.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, rather than consolidate their results.
However, those subsidiaries that are not themselves During the year the Company acquired a number of new subsidiary investment entities and provide investment related services to the entities.
The Directors have assessed whether each of these entities Company are consolidated.
provide investment-related services and have concluded that none of these entities should be consolidated and that all new subsidiaries should be held at fair value through profit or loss.
Key estimates and judgments The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also requires The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of applying information to be disclosed in the financial statements.
the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies are areas where a higher degree of judgment has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
i Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to measure their subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss rather than consolidate them.
To determine that the Company continues to meet the definition of an investment entity, the Company is required to satisfy the following three essential criteria: 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 76 Financials and other information ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has Valuation of the investment portfolio significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating The key area where estimates are significant to the consolidated policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment financial statements and have a significant risk of causing a material portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
next financial year is in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, which allows investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded The majority of assets in the investment portfolio are valued on a from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial discounted cash flow basis which requires assumptions to be made recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in regarding future cash flows and the discount rate to be applied to accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the these cash flows.
Refer to Note 7 for further details of the valuation statement of comprehensive income in the year.
techniques, significant inputs to those techniques and sensitivity of the fair value of these investments to the assumptions that have iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of been made.
the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IFRS 11 and IAS 28, which allows interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its Standards and interpretations issued but not scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, yeteffective as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of As at 31 March 2015, the following new or amended standards comprehensive income in the year.
and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, had been issued by the International Accounting Standards iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup Board IASB but are yet to become effective.
balances between the Company and the consolidated subsidiary: 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited, and any unrealised gains and IFRS Annual improvements 2010 to 2012 and 2011 to 2013 effective for losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2014. are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS Annual improvements 2012 to 2014 effective for accounting There will be no elimination in relation to transactions between the periods commencing on or after 1 July 2016.
Company and subsidiaries held at fair value.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
B Exchange differences IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective for Foreign currency transactions Transactions entered into by the accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017.
Group in a currency other than its functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional currency Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange statements of the Consolidated Group in future periods, although IFRS differences arising on translation to the functional currency are 9 may impact the disclosure of certain Financial Instruments.
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of IFRS 10 Revised Consolidated Financial historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange Statements rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are The IASB issued a narrow scope amendment to IFRS 10 in December translated to the functional currency using exchange rates ruling at the 2014 and subsequently the Group revisited its initial assessment date the fair value was determined.
of all of its subsidiaries and concluded that the initial assessment remained appropriate.
C Investment portfolio A Classification Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and fide-recognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable of the investment.
The Group manages its investments with a view to returns from its involvement with the subsidiary entity and has the profiting from the receipt of investment income and obtaining capital ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary appreciation from changes in the fair value of investments.
In accordance with the exception under IFRS 10 Consolidated all quoted investments and unquoted investments are designated Financial Statements, the Company only consolidates subsidiaries in as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and the financial statements if they are deemed to perform independent subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
All investments investment-related services and do not meet the definition of an are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given investment entity.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for as and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a Investments at fair value through profit or loss with changes in fair different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition costs value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
are attributed to equity investments and recognised in the statement of The Directors have assessed all entities within the Group structure comprehensive income.
and concluded that 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited is the only subsidiary of the Company that provides independent investmentrelated services or activities.
This subsidiary has been consolidated with the Company to form the Group.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 77 Financials and other information Significant accounting policies i Realised gains or losses on the disposal of investments are the E Treasury assets and liabilities difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable on Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities disposal less any directly attributable costs and its fair value at the start are used to manage cash flows and the overall costs of borrowing.
of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions statement of comprehensive income.
ii Net gains or losses on the revaluation of investments are the i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term the accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and the end of deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in the statement of comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis.
Income ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
Where issue costs is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can are incurred in relation to arranging debt finance facilities these are be reliably measured.
capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other receivables and amortised over the life of the loan.
After initial recognition, loans and Investment income relates to returns from investments in the Portfolio, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the excluding fair value movement on the value of the Portfolio.
effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
income is recognised: Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the Companys rights to receive iii Other financial assets Other financial assets in the balance sheet payment have been established with the exception of dividends paid comprise cash held on deposit in third party bank accounts on behalf out of pre-acquisition reserves that are recognised by adjusting the of the Mersey Gateway Bridge, A9 and Ayrshire College primary PPP fair value of the equity investment upon acquisition: projects.
The Company retains the right to replace these cash deposits income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value for a letter of credit of the equivalent amount.
through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to the iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows fluctuations in the valuation of the investment portfolio and changes through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying in interest rates on borrowings held by the Oystercatcher Luxco 2 value or principal amount: S. r. l. subsidiary.
This is achieved by the use of forward foreign distributions from investments in Limited Partnerships are currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are used recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the for the sole purpose of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative Companys rights as a Limited Partner to receive payment have financial instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
been established: Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on fees receivable represent amounts earned on completion of the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at underlying investment transactions and are recognised on an each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has been established.
instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative D Fees to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the derivative contracts are disclosed in the financial statements as either i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of current or non-current accordingly.
Realised gains over fair value on acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
the settlement of derivative financial instruments are the difference ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based on between the fair value of the consideration receivable on disposal the Gross Investment Value of the Group.
The fee is payable quarterly in and the fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted into advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are provided in Note 18. are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in excess of a performance hurdle subject to a high water mark requirement being exceeded.
The fee is payable annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 18. iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 78 Financials and other information F Other assets I Income taxes Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, policy, are stated at their consideration receivable less impairment withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited losses.
The carrying value of such assets or liabilities is considered in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it to be approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each relates to an amount recognised in the statement of changes in equity balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of when it is recognised directly in this statement.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated statement flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further at subsequent financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws for each relevant been recognised.
tax jurisdiction in which the subsidiaries of the Group operate that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
G Other liabilities Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance reporting date.
The carrying value of other liabilities is considered to be sheet liability method.
approximate to their fair value.
H Equity and reserves i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the proceeds received.
ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the Company net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has been transferred to retained reserves, in accordance with Jersey Company Law, in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital account of the Company.
iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the period in which the Companys obligation to make the dividend payment arises.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 79
