Where we operate Our global network of 38 offices in 25 countries supports a uniformly high standard of local client service.
Where possible our client relationship teams are located close to their clients.
We will continue to expand and deepen our distribution footprint to enhance client service and create new business opportunities.
As we grow our investment capabilities, it is important that we have product specialists and client relationship teams who are well versed in these new capabilities.
Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific The UK accounts for 60% of our clients by AuM, some Singapore is the Asian headquarters of the Group and is home 169.3 billion.
to most of our Asia fund managers covering the main asset classes as well as substantial marketing, client servicing and Our headquarters are in Aberdeen, where we locate many administrative functions.
Other full service offices are in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kuala Our largest investment offices are in London and Edinburgh Lumpur, Seoul, Sydney and Tokyo.
Our Taipei and Kaohsiung sales where we have our investment teams for global emerging markets offices service the retail market in Taiwan.
We have a new licence equities ex.
Asia, UK, European and global equities: European, in China, allowing us to grow the Shanghai office with research and global and emerging market fixed income: alternatives, multi asset business development staff.
and quantitative investments: and UK property teams.
Clients in Asia account for around 7% of our AuM and our We have a significant presence across Continental Europe with investments in Asian equities, fixed income and property are 13 regional offices in 12 countries.
Europe, excluding the UK, core competencies for the Group.
accounts for 16% of Group AuM at the end of September.
Luxembourg is the domicile for the flagship Aberdeen Global fund range which has AuM of 19 billion at the end of September.
Americas The Middle East and Africa are important sources of institutional Philadelphia is our hub for North America and includes fixed funds and we have a strong client base which we service from income, US equities and property teams.
Our New York office London.
In September, around 2% of our AuM was managed for is growing and is the home of our high yield team, as well institutional and sovereign wealth entities in those regions.
as being an important office for so many of our clients.
Our alternatives capabilities in US are strengthened by the FLAG and Arden acquisitions.
The Toronto office services our Canadian client base.
The Brazilian office in So Paulo, an investment office for our emerging market equity and debt teams, has launched its own fund range.
Our Americas team also covers Latin American clients investing in our Luxembourg fund range.
We manage 15% of our AuM on behalf of clients throughout the Americas and have developed a strong platform on which to service institutional and wholesale channels.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Head office Sales and distribution Property centres Europe, Middle East Aberdeen Amsterdam Budapest Amsterdam and Africa Copenhagen Edinburgh Copenhagen Investment centres Net revenue Frankfurt Geneva Edinburgh Edinburgh Helsinki Jersey Frankfurt Budapest London Luxembourg Helsinki 742.9m London Madrid Milan London 2014: 653.7m Paris Oslo Paris Madrid Stockholm Zrich Oslo Paris Stockholm Americas Asia Pacific Net revenue Net revenue 103.7m 322.4m 2014: 103.6m 2014: 360.3m Sales and distribution Investment centres Sales and distribution Investment centres Boston Boston Bandung Bangkok Miami New York Bangkok Hong Kong New York Philadelphia Hong Kong Jakarta Philadelphia Stamford Kaohsiung Kuala Lumpur Stamford So Paulo Kuala Lumpur Singapore Toronto Singapore Sydney Surabaya Tokyo Property centre Sydney Philadelphia Representative offices Taipei Seoul Tokyo Shanghai Melbourne aberdeen-asset.
