Accounting policies Basis of preparation New and amended standards and interpretations The financial statements have been prepared and approved by adopted during the year the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting The following new and amended Standards and Interpretations Standards IFRS endorsed by the EU.
have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these The financial statements have been prepared on the historical financial statements.
cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the measurement of long term Effective employee benefits at present value of the obligation less fair value date periods of any assets held to settle the obligation.
The principal accounting commencing policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise on or after stated, are set out below.
1 January 2014 In publishing these financial statements, the Company is taking IFRS 10 May 2011 Consolidated 1 January 2014 advantage of the exemption provided by section 408 of the financial statements Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income IFRS 11 May 2011 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014 statement and related notes that form part of the approved IFRS 12 May 2011 Disclosure of Interest 1 January 2014 financial statements.
in Other Entities Going concern Amendments to Transition guidance 1 January 2014 IFRS 10, 11, 12 The directors have, at the time of approving the financial December 2011 statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Amendments to IAS Offsetting financial 1 January 2014 existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt 32 December 2011 assets and financial the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial liabilities statements.
Further detail is included in the Directors report on Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets 1 January 2014 pages 89 to 90.
The adoption of IFRS 10 has not resulted in the consolidation of additional funds where the Group is now deemed to have a Accounting estimates and judgements controlling interest under the definition in this standard.
Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use No restatement has been performed at 30 September 2014 as of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the management determine there to be no material difference to the reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities previously reported financial statements.
There is no impact on net at the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported assets, operating profit or profit before tax.
income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates IFRS 11 has not resulted in any changes to the consolidated are based on managements knowledge and judgement of financial statements for the current or previously reported periods.
information and financial data, the actual outcome may differ IFRS 12 requires certain disclosures to be made in respect of the from these estimates.
The key assumptions which affect the Groups interests in the funds it manages.
These are shown in results for the year and the balances as at the year end are note 32. specifically identified, where appropriate, in the following notes to the Group financial statements: The Group has also adopted any revisions to the standards that are effective for the first time in the current year.
This has no material a impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets impact on the Groups results.
note 13: b assessment of estimated useful lives of intangible assets notes 13: c business combinations and measurement of assets and liabilities at time of acquisition notes 14 and 29: d valuation and determination of fair value of deferred contingent consideration note 29: e provisions note 27.
94 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements New standards and interpretations not applied Basis of consolidation Endorsed by the EU and available for early adoption: The consolidated financial information contained within these financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and EU Effective financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for the date periods period to 30 September 2015. commencing on or after Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company and are 1 January 2015 included from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed Annual Improvements to 1 February 2015 to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the improvements 2012 IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS 8, entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power December 2013 IFRS 13, IAS 16, IFRS over the entity.
9, IAS 37, IAS 39 Annual improvements IFRS 1, IFRS 3, 1 January 2015 Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries 2013 Dec 2013 IFRS 13 are shown separately in the consolidated statement of profit or None of the standards and interpretations issued and not loss, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes yet effective are expected to have a material impact on the in equity and balance sheet respectively.
Non-controlling interests are measured at either their Standards and interpretations not endorsed: proportionate share of their identifiable net assets or their proportionate share of the fair value of identifiable net assets at Effective the date of acquisition.
The choice of measurement is made on a date periods case by case basis.
commencing on or after Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling 1 January 2015 interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes Amendment to Accounting for 1 January 2016 in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to nonIFRS 11 May 2014 Acquisitions of controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling Interests in Joint interests having a negative balance.
Operations Amendment to Clarification of 1 January 2016 All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
May 2014 of Depreciation and Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, Amortisation but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Amendments to IFRS Clarification of 1 January 2016 Business combinations 10, 12 and IAS 28 the accounting December 2014 treatment for sales or Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using contribution of assets the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition between an investor is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition and its associates or date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity joint ventures instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Costs relating to acquisitions are recognised in the Annual Improvements to: 1 January 2016 income statement as incurred, and, where sufficiently material are improvements 2014 IFRS 5, IFRS 7, IAS 19 disclosed separately in the income statement.
September 2014 and IAS 34 Amendments to IAS Part of the disclosure 1 January 2016 Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes 1 December 2014 initiative aimed any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration at improving arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
financial statement Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the presentation and cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period disclosures adjustments see below.
Subsequent changes in the fair value IFRS 15 May 2014 Revenue from 1 January 2018 of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are contracts with reflected in the income statement and, when sufficiently material, customers are disclosed separately.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not remeasured and its IFRS 9 Jul 2014 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards on the Groups future financial statements but does not expect any to have a material impact on results or financial position.
com 95 Accounting policies continued The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Acquisition-related items liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Where the Group incurs significant expenditure or earns Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition significant income arising from an acquisition and which are date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure then the assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised expenditure incurred is separately recognised on the face of the and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 income statement in order to provide more helpful information Employee Benefits respectively.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete These costs are disclosed in a separate column of the income by the end of the reporting period in which the combination statement.
Changes in the fair value of deferred contingent occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for consideration in respect of acquisitions, included within operating which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts profit, as well as finance costs such as interest on borrowings to are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets execute an acquisition and including the unwinding of the discount or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained on deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions are considered about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date acquisition-related items where they are necessarily incurred in that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at the course of an acquisition.
Leases The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and is leased asset.
subject to a maximum of one year.
Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the Revenue income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as a economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight line basis can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are over the term of the lease.
provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line performance fees.
basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
Commissions and similar expenses payable to intermediaries are recognised when services are provided.
Pension costs The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a group The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of personal pension scheme.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries make clients where the actual performance of the clients assets exceeds contributions to various trade and state defined contribution defined benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance over schemes.
Contributions to these defined contribution pension a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement quantum of the fee can be reliably estimated and it is probable as they become payable under the rules of the schemes.
that the fee will be received.
The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit Finance revenue pension schemes which arose on acquisitions.
All schemes are Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest income closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
is recognised using the effective interest rate method as it accrues.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these schemes is Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the of future benefit that members have earned in return for their ex-dividend date.
service in prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is Finance costs deducted.
The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity using the effective interest rate method.
They also include nondates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
utilisation fees charged on the undrawn portion of the revolving The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the credit facility.
The unwinding of the discount on the deferred contingent consideration is classified within finance costs.
96 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes is Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of and is calculated at the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group or Company.
Net interest on the liability asset and the costs of curtailments, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable settlements and administration are recognised in the temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised income statement.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can Remeasurements are recognised directly in other comprehensive be utilised, except: income in the period in which they occur.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised asset in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in Other employee benefits the foreseeable future: Share-based payments and deferred fund awards where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial The Group grants equity-settled share-based awards and recognition of goodwill: and cash-settled awards for awards in Aberdeen funds to certain employees.
where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that: Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
is not a business combination: and The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over profit nor loss.
the service period to vesting, based on the Groups estimate of Property, plant & equipment equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be measured For cash-settled deferred fund awards, a liability is recognised for reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an expense in the the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value income statement as incurred.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off the settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated useful is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or lives as follows: loss for the year.
Heritable property: 50 years: Taxation Leasehold property: over the period of the lease: Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and Property improvements: shorter of five years or the period deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except of the lease: and to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income.
Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for tax purposes.
com 97 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Impairment Goodwill The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over of goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of other fixed liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the balance sheet.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement Management contracts and distribution agreements whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating Intangible assets, such as management contracts and distribution unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is agreements acquired as part of a business combination, are the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the fair In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if value of the assets can be measured reliably.
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine They are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair value at the date of to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed acquisition is calculated using discounted cash flow methodology the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of and represents the valuation of the net residual income stream depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had arising from the management contracts or distribution agreements been recognised.
in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are included in the Financial instruments balance sheet as an intangible asset.
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition open end funds, which have no limit of time or termination or issue of a financial instrument other than financial instruments provisions, are considered to be indefinite and are therefore not at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these contracts from the fair value of the financial instrument, as appropriate, on is reassessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the remains appropriate.
acquisition of financial instruments at fair value through profit Certain management contracts are considered to have a definite or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
They are life and are therefore amortised, generally, on a straight line basis categorised as described below.
over the lower of their estimated useful lives or average contract The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded term of between two and ten years, with amortisation charged on organised financial markets is determined by reference to to the income statement reflecting the pattern of consumption market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet of economic benefits.
In limited situations, where a higher value date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair of outflows is expected in earlier years we may apply a reducing value is determined using valuation techniques.
These techniques balance basis, under which the amortisation charge is higher include recent arms length market transactions, reference to the in early periods.
The useful lives of distribution agreements are current market value of another financial instrument which is determined by reference to the expiry date of the agreement.
substantially the same and discounted cash flow analysis.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
Software Purchased software assets have a finite life and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the useful economic life of the asset which, for software, is estimated at between three and five years.
Subsequent expenditure on software is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
98 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Financial investments held for trading include investments Cash and cash equivalents acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits or if so designated by management.
They are carried at fair value and investments in money market instruments with an original in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken to the income maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are statement in the period in which they arise.
The following repayable on demand are included as a component of cash assets and liabilities are classified as financial instruments and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of held for trading: cash flows.
Current assets Investment contracts Assets backing investment contract liabilities The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Stock of units and shares Pensions Limited L&P.
Management fees earned from these Seed capital contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting Other investments policy for revenue.
Current liabilities L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a lineby-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets described as assets Investment contract liabilities backing investment contract liabilities held by L&P and related Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value through profit the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair or loss.
value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the Amounts received from and paid to investors under these cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore in the income statement.
not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss is At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at reclassified from equity to the income statement with subsequent an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match movements recognised in the income statement.
Non-current assets includes Other investments available for sale Other investments held at amortised cost Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the Group commits to its sale.
Derivative financial instruments In limited circumstances, the Group may use derivative financial instruments to hedge against market and foreign exchange risk in relation to certain seed capital investments.
These are classified as financial assets or liabilities according to the fair value at reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to profit or loss.
It is not the Groups policy to trade in derivative instruments.
com 99 Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Foreign currencies In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items Interests in structured entities included in the financial statements of each entity are measured A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that in that functional currency.
voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional control, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities contractual arrangements.
The Groups interests in consolidated denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange and unconsolidated structured entities are described in note 32. rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets Equity instruments and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are Perpetual subordinated capital securities translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at The 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes are classified as an the date of the transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, except at Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are recognised as sheet date.
Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected Preference shares in the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements The 5.0% non-voting, perpetual, non-cumulative, redeemable are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value preference shares are classified as an element of equity as the movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in other securities are irredeemable, except at the Companys discretion comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements and dividends are discretionary and non-cumulative.
are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Dividends The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares are recognised sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
on the date of payment or, if subject to approval, the date The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated approved by shareholders.
to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are Provisions recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event foreign exchange differences in respect of that operation are and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be recycled to the profit and loss account.
required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
100 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
