INTRODUCTION Glossary STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The year in which an accident occurs, also referred to as the earned basis.
Accident year The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, Actuarial best estimate actuarial methods and judgement.
A monetary amount set aside for the future payment of incurred claims that have not yet been settled, Claims reserves thus representing a balance sheet liability.
An arrangement in which two or more insurance companies agree to underwrite insurance business Co-insurance ona specified portfolio in specified proportions.
Each co-insurer is directly liable to the policyholder fortheir proportional share.
The sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.
Combined ratio An agreement between a ceding insurer and the reinsurer that provides for the valuation, payment, Commutation andcomplete discharge of all obligations between the parties under a particular reinsurance contract.
The ratio can be calculated on an earned or written basis.
Expressed as a percentage, of i net operating Expense ratio expenses, either divided by ii written or earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
The tendency for the insurance market to swing between highs and lows of profitability over time, Insurance market cycle withthe potential to influence premium rates also known as the underwriting cycle.
The loss ratio can be calculated on an accident year or underwriting year basis, and is expressed Loss ratio asapercentage of i claims incurred, divided by ii net premiums.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period, less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
Itincludes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Also referred to as net earned premium.
The element of premium, less reinsurance premium, earned Net insurance premium revenue inthe period.
Premium A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Written premium refers to the total amount the policyholder has contracted for, whereas earned premium refers to the recognition of this premium over the life of the contract.
A provision found in some reinsurance and co-insurance agreements that provides for profit sharing.
Profit commission Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to Reinsurance another insurer.
This can be on a quota share basis a percentage share of premiums, claims and expenses or an excess of loss basis full reinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Total total premiums written, including co-insurance.
Total Gross Net premiums written Gross total premiums written, including reinsurance but excluding co-insurance.
Net total premiums written, excluding reinsurance and co-insurance.
Turnover A non-GAAP measure, turnover is the sum of total premiums written and Other Revenue.
The projected ratio for a particular accident year or underwriting year, often used in the calculation Ultimate loss ratio ofunderwriting profit and profit commission.
The year in which the policy was incepted.
Underwriting year Underwriting year basis Also referred to as the written basis.
Claims incurred are allocated to the calendar year in which the policy was underwritten.
Underwriting year basis results relate to the 2015 underwriting year, are calculated on the whole account including co-insurance and reinsurance shares and include all premiums, claims, expenses incurred and Other Revenue for example instalment income and commission income relating to the sale of products that are ancillary to the main insurance policy relating to policies incepting in the relevant underwriting year.
A policy can be written in one calendar year but earned over a subsequent calendar year.
Written Earned basis ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 115
